"id";"description";"status";"date_crawled";"article_id"
1;"Verizon, AT&amp;T, Johnson &amp; Johnson and other major companies have pulled advertisements from YouTube after learning they were paired with videos promoting extremism, terrorism and other offensive topics, The New York Times reports. Among the other companies involved are pharmaceutical giant GSK, HSBC, the Royal Bank of Scotland and L'Oreal, amounting to a potential loss of hundreds of millions of dollars to the Google-owned company. The boycott began last week after a Times of London investigation spurred many major European companies to pull their ads from YouTube. American companies swiftly followed, even after Google promised Tuesday to work harder to block ads on ""hateful, offensive and derogatory"" videos. ""We are deeply concerned that our ads may have appeared alongside YouTube content promoting terrorism and hate,"" a AT&amp;T rep said in a statement. ""Until Google can ensure this won't happen again, we are removing our ads from Google's nonsearch platforms.""Like AT&amp;T, most companies are only pulling their ads from YouTube and will continue to place ads on Google's search platforms, which remain the biggest source of revenue for Google's parent company, Alphabet.Still, the tech giant offered up a slew of promises to assuage marketers and ensure them that they were fixing the problems on YouTube. Due to the massive number of videos on YouTube – about 400 hours of video is posted each minute – the site primarily uses an automated system to place ads. While there are some failsafes in place to keep advertisements from appearing alongside offensive content, Google's Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler wrote in a blog post that the company would hire ""significant numbers"" of employees to review YouTube videos and mark them as inappropriate for ads. He also said Google's latest advancements in artificial intelligence and machine learning will help the company review and flag large swaths of videos. Schindler added, ""In cases where advertisers find their ads were served where they shouldn't have been, we plan to offer a new escalation path to make it easier for them to raise issues. In addition, we'll soon be able to resolve these cases in less than a few hours.""The boycott comes days after YouTube addressed another controversy when it announced plans to change its ""Restricted Mode"" setting, which filters ""potentially inappropriate"" content. The site was battered with complaints after a number of users, including Tegan and Sara, pointed out that non-explicit clips with themes related to LGBTQ life were unavailable in restricted mode. ";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:01";1476
2;"Last fall, as a grueling presidential election turned to its agonizing final chapter, teachers in eastern Pennsylvania started reporting a troubling phenomenon. In September, at Southern Lehigh High School, administrators reported students flinging the ""Heil Hitler"" salute in the hallways. Swastikas were found across school grounds. Black students were called ""cotton pickers,"" non-hetero women ""dykes."" Eight miles away, in the East Penn school district, two swastikas and the N-word were drawn in a school bus window.Then there was the case of Saucon Valley High, a 740-person public school in nearby Northhampton County. Tensions had long predated the election, students and administrators say, but had ripened by October when a Snapchat video began to circulate among students. In it, a white teenager harasses his black peer at a school pep-rally. ""This fucking nigger is taking his time!"" an unseen student jeers at a black student sitting before a plate of food. Days after the video, tensions culminated in a fistfight between the two students.By one account, schools across Pennsylvania witnessed at least 20 such incidents clustered around the election, and there were dozens more across the country, as media accounts of swastika drawings become a weekly phenomenon. Whether it suggests a national trend, however, is too soon to say: Any official increase in school-based hate is measured in formal reports – data that will not be available for months, in some cases years.It's telling, though, that teachers are not reporting transgressions of the garden variety, like bullying or cursing. Rather it encompasses a set of offenses that form the strange war cry of a new strain of politics – popular among the young and disinhibited – committed in the name of upending so-called PC culture. As to why, some teachers, administrators and students have a strong hunch: They call it the Trump Effect.For teachers, the new semester has only compounded the dread of an impossibly difficult fall. ""We were already hearing from teachers as they really struggled to figure out: How do you teach about an election that looks more like a reality show than an election?"" says Maureen Costello, a former teacher who leads the Teaching Tolerance program at the Southern Poverty Law Center, which monitors the climate of the country's schools. ""There's certainly data to suggest that bullying has become politicized. I cannot remember another presidential candidate who has done that. And many teachers say, this is new.""In November, weeks after the election, the SPLC published a report based on 10,000 teacher survey responses, a remarkable if unscientific sample. Two-thirds of respondents reported an increase in student fears about their safety after the election, largely from minority or immigrant families. A sample of more than 1,200 responses, made available to Rolling Stone, included students hoisting the confederate flag during the pledge of allegiance; a California school scrubbing away graffiti reading ""No Niggers Allowed""; and a third grader in Washington State who asked the class, ""All the Muslims in our school have to leave. So we'll have more chairs soon, right?"" Teachers were not exempt. ""We'll miss you!"" one teacher overheard a colleague telling an undocumented girl, when she approached the teacher to confide her fears on the morning after the election.Teenagers are particularly susceptible to the mimicry that dictates school norms – as anyone who went to middle or high school can attest – a phenomenon known in the parlance of school sociologists as ""social referencing,"" according to Linda Tropp, a professor at UMass Amherst. That mimicry may be taking on new dimensions. ""Trump presents as a bully, and so he's mimicked as a bully,"" says Costello. (Biographer Michael D'Antonio once analogized Trump's politics in a similar way: ""I think that he's sort of playing to the kids in the classroom who hate the teacher, too, and really love it when someone disrupts things,"" D'Antonio said.)Across the U.S., teachers are finding themselves in the unwelcome teeth of politics. In one California school district, a teacher was suspended for mentioning the history of Nazi Germany in the context of Trump's victory – an odd sanction, given the blooming of swastikas in California's own public schools just after the election. Private schools, unsurprisingly, tend to see the problem more lucidly: When a private school in Loudon County, Virginia, saw its historic black schoolhouse vandalized with swastikas after the election, teachers were instructed to cover the event aggressively – with students marshaled in the cleanup effort. ""We need to give teachers room to have this conversation,"" says Dr. Deep Sran, the school's principal. ""If we don't, students are only going to find information from the web."" He mentions the story of a nearby public school whose teachers were banned from discussing politics. ""We do actually have to respond to what teacher concerns are,"" says Sran. ""Otherwise, I think the Republic will suffer. I don't see any way around it.""Public school, on the other hand, have reported feelings of constraint. The SPLC's survey results include teachers prompted to describe their fears: ""Administration planned to completely ignore the issue,"" wrote one. Another: "" Is it so much to ask for schools to denounce a white supremacist in the White House? Because it was ""too political"", I got a reprimand from my boss."" Entry 1082 simply reads: ""HELP."" For America's teachers, it could be a long four years.Saucon Valley is a school whose divisions, in some ways mirror the country's. Residents in the school district residents narrowly voted for Trump by 137 votes, out of 3,600 cast. And while the nation's pundits were predicting a blowout for Clinton, especially in states like Pennsylvania, the high school held its traditional mock election. The result came down to about ten votes, breaking for Trump. The morning after the national election, euphoric students poured into class, Trump's red signature hats and T-shirts pockmarking the long hallways.Across the Lehigh Valley, some residents have grown reluctant to discussing the issue. Furious Saucon Valley parents, especially parents of students of color, have appealed to the district to intervene. Some were surprised by the early emergence of an unlikely champion: Saucon Valley's own superintendent, Monica McHale-Small.""Our job is not just to teach [students] how to read, write and do arithmetic, but to teach them how to get along in the world, and that this kind of behavior is not okay,"" McHale-Small told me when she first spoke over the phone, during her school's winter break.  ""This preceded Donald Trump even as a candidate. But this election kind of took the lid off something that was kind of..."" She pauses. ""I don't think it was never not there. I believe it's been there all along, and people feel empowered.""After the racially-charged video and retaliatory fight last October, administrators were shocked. Police charged the black student with assault for starting the fight; after some delay, the local DA threatened to prosecute the white student for ""ethnic intimidation"" over the video. The story took off – McHale-Small soon found herself targeted by the Daily Stormer, the white supremacist website, which posted her photo and school phone number. In early December, McHale-Small sent a letter to parents about incidents and their attention in the media. ""As I have said in the press and at Board meetings, this situation was handled promptly and appropriately by our building
and district administration,"" it read, referring to the mediation session that was required of the students, and to their subsequent punishment. ""Even prior to this incident, our district has been working toward developing the cultural competency of faculty and
staff."" In the weeks after, McHale-Small began to push a series of high-profile initiatives: A new Inclusion Committee led by students and faculty, a teacher development program to discuss research on implicit bias and, eventually, a visit from the federal government. A lifelong Pennsylvanian, McHale-Small was born and raised in Delaware County. She waved away a career as a doctor, her parents' preference, and entered the University of Pennsylvania's graduate program in education. She was drawn to psychology, a track that quickened her curiosity in issues of classroom equity, race and performance. At Penn, McHale-Small joined a cohort of one-day superintendents influenced by academics like Bob Jarvis, one of the university's intrepid researchers on race and equity. When she graduated, McHale-Small migrated across jobs in Pennsylvania, serving in districts whose white populations were consistently dwindling. In one district in Lebanon County, over the course of her tenure, the district's Latino population more than doubled, from three percent to eight. One afternoon in January, I drove through the toy-train village of Hellertown, up a hill past wilted cornfields and fog-crested valleys, to meet McHale-Small in her district office. She sat on an olive couch, bracketed between her doctorate degree and a fraying poster of Mahatma Gandhi. ""I was kind of incredulous they picked me,"" she recalls of the school board's selection process. The district is 87 percent white, with a strong graduation rate. Small's 13-year career had tilted toward more diverse communities – she'd found work as a psychologist and administrator in Upper Darby and West Chester – when she was approached by Saucon Valley, a more rural district, to recruit her into her first stint as a superintendent. ""They said they were really looking for someone who was going to stretch the district, to take it to the next level,"" she recalls. During the interview process, she notes, ""I talked about equity. I was very honest about what was important to me."" She was hired in June 2014, and began that August. Almost her entire tenure has been shadowed by the presidential election. At 56, McHale-Small has auburn hair and delicate features. Her face wore a kind of expression sometimes seen in losing politicians, sweet but sullen. ""It's a big reason this may not be the right kind of job – you are in the spotlight as a superintendent,"" she laughs nervously. ""Maybe I should have thought that through."" The school day had turned out more eventful than expected: That afternoon, the county's District Attorney, John Morganelli, was considering whether to charge the white student for the Snapchat video.The drama has been taxing on parents and students, as well. ""They're not happy with the attention we're receiving,"" she says. ""They were hesitant to admit that maybe this really is something that needs to be dealt with. I think now we all know that it is."" Though she had described the presidential campaign as helping to embolden a spirit of disinhibition, McHale-Small remains reluctant to place Trump at the center of recent events – she insists, perhaps in a nod to the district's politics, that the campaign and the district's tumult are not connected. ""This far preceded Donald Trump even being a candidate,"" she says. ""This is my third year in the district. Our first incident happened my first year.""Bob Jarvis, the race and equity researcher from McHale's early days at Penn, suggests that the Lehigh Valley region is undergoing dramatic demographic changes. Few have studied the region's trends and its effects on education more closely than Jarvis, a bear of a man with a salt-and-pepper beard, who seems to barely fit inside his cramped, book-strewn office at Penn's Center for Educational Leadership in West Philadelphia. ""I think Trump's success here [in Pennsylvania] has emboldened people that were once underground,"" Jarvis says. In 2000, Jarvis founded a regional alliance of school districts, which brought administrators together to strategize over the newest research on racial equity in classrooms. This Delaware Valley Consortium on Excellence and Equity, a straightforward enough idea, was one of the first of its kind. McHale-Small followed this model in 2015, founding one such network in the Lehigh Valley.Jarvis swivels to his computer and pulls up a series of maps of eastern Pennsylvania that show how its white, rural areas have become far more integrated over the past 15 years. ""Part of what's going on in this school, and these other districts, are areas that are more diverse and more economically challenged,"" he says. ""And they're not prepared for it."" Jarvis' data hints at a still-larger trend, not so much an elephant in the room as an iceberg hovering on the water. Trump's political fortunes, and the upheaval occasioned by it, are warped toward a demographic judgment day – the year 2045, when white America will no longer represent a majority of the population. One place in the country where this long-foretold transformation has already occurred – inside public schools, where in 2016 nonwhite students outnumbered white for the first time on record. For Trump voters who fear a changing world, the target of their dread lurks not only at the ballot box, but at the bus stop.""Our particular district, Saucon Valley, is a changing demographic,"" says McHale-Small. ""It's been a very insular community. And now it's changing."" After administrators at Southern Lehigh, East Penn and Saucon sent notices home to parents, local news sprung to action, grilling McHale-Small, honing in on angry parents, and once planting reporters across the street to interview students before first period. Not everyone describes the same problem at Saucon Valley. ""I haven't seen students seem particularly emboldened,"" says Saucon English teacher Megan Hauser. ""My bigger concern was almost this negation of the work that we do as teachers – as if what they're seeing in the political landscape negates what we're trying to teach them."" Hauser had responded to the SPLC survey. ""I actually had a couple of students who had sort of been touting Trump's name for sake of effect, and then when he won, they were like, 'Woah. I didn't actually think that was going to happen.'"" Amy Kozel, Saucon’s civics and economics teacher, had asked herself similar questions. ""This is something I’ve been struggling with my students for years. When they talk about immigration, it's – 'Oh my God, the Mexicans!'"" says Kozel, who has taught in the district for 13 years. ""This election has empowered some people be a little bit more vocal."" As for a Trump Effect? "" I don't really see it. The problems are deeper, and we just have not addressed them. But at some point, it’s going to come out where you can’t hide it anymore, and that’s what this was."" Kozel expressed less concern about students mimicking Trumps (“They were far more involved [in the election] this year – I think it’s great. If they’re going to offend me or others, I can work with that,"" she says.)One of the school's student Trump supporters was 16-year-old junior we'll call Seth who reported that tensions around Election Day were high; when he decided to don his red Trump hat for the infamous October pep rally, one student approached him to forcibly remove it, he says.  ""It's Trump's charisma that's really attracted many students,"" Seth says, speaking by phone the night before a midterm. ""The border wall, for example, is such a radical notion – and young-minded people are very radical. I'm assuming that's what catches their interest."" Seth became enthralled with Trump after reading Russia Today, Breitbart and InfoWars; he made an emphatic case for Trump's vision, describing at one point the left's refusal to condemn Islam as ""political correctness that kills."" Without intending to, Seth's reasoning showed that the  animosity long directed at liberal academia has seeped into teenager's animosity toward their teachers. ""As far as teachers, their bias towards the left is evident,"" he says. ""It's the same thing that's occurring in colleges around the country – these professors being biased towards the left."" Seth spoke to me a few weeks before the inauguration, when press coverage of the racial incidents had crested. ""I do really believe that the election has minimal to do with that,"" he says. As for the students heiling Hitler at nearby Southern Lehigh, he adds, ""That's unacceptable. But they're most likely doing that for a joke.""At Seth's school, McHale-Small has tried to introduce a series of initiatives since the election season began. Not all of them have been buoyantly received. One, a ""climate survey"" on bullying and race, garnered some pushback from parents. (""A few did ask why race was so central,"" she says.) She also kept up a focus on restorative mediation – which puts students students and their parents face-to-face in a room with a trained mediator, as a way to make sure their eventual punishment actually resonates. After the video firestorm, she created the Inclusion Committee, with students of color serving on the board – part of a philosophy, she says, of trying to give students a voice, even if only in spirit. And together with a neighboring superintendent, McHale-Small launched a Greater Lehigh Valley Consortium for Equity and Excellence, a kind of ongoing boot camp for teacher development. Last year, in its inaugural phase, McHale-Small rallied administrators from across the district to the discussion-centered conferences, with topics like ""Root Causes of Underachievement"" and cultural competency. This year, teachers from Saucon Valley will attend a program created specifically for them for the first time. ""One of the things some of the teachers had asked for is strategies,"" explains McHale-Small, echoing the anxiety expressed in the SPLC report. ""If you hear conversation in the classroom or hallway, how do you jump in and handle it?""Kozel, the civics teacher, agrees, describing the difficulties facing some more inexperienced teachers. ""That's actually the larger issue: Staff don’t necessarily know how to counteract a lot of the comments or questions,"" Kozel says. ""If I were a 24-year-old teacher, and someone spouted something out, I would be like holy crap, what do I say? Someone chimes in – now kids are feeding off each other in the room. If you can’t respond to it the right way, what are you supposed to do?""Yet some in McHale-Small's district paint these efforts as superficial. Writing anonymously in an SPLC response, one elementary staffer in the district said that ""racist and classist acts of intimidation have been occurring for 10 years… Our upper administration is... creating an Inclusion Committee, but exercising little effort to gather allies and educators."" McHale-Small listened to this sympathetically, and hoped the new teacher summits could make a dent. ""We have a long way to go,"" she says.After some time, McHale-Small rises from the couch and opens the door for two students and their parents – she ushers in James, a sturdy junior with a babyish grin, and Jordan, a lithe but somber classmate who, during our conversation, reveals himself to be the target of the Snapchat video. (Since they are minors, both names have been changed.) They are two of about 60 students of color at Saucon Valley, and both the children of mixed-race households. The two families camp around a coffee table, a remarkable scene, as McHale-Small presides over a freewheeling discussion that resembles something close to group therapy. The two young men recount some of their experience of being a minority teenager growing up in an overwhelmingly white school. A few years ago, Jordan was accused of stealing from the lunchroom, he says, and patted down in public. (School staff found nothing). This election, he's heard friends playfully utter racial epithets. A student once tried to drape him in a confederate flag in a hallway. ""You hear the N-word. You think, oh they said a word – doesn't hurt me,"" James says, jumping into the conversation. ""But I guess that's a way of coping."" Jordan, who fidgets silently on the couch, punctuates his friend's rapid delivery with occasional sparkling wit. Over the course of two hours, the students deliberated, sometimes painfully, over whether their school was witnessing a Trump Effect. The verdict was unclear. ""Things bubbled up when Obama was elected – because he was of color – and now that we have Donald Trump, everything got whipped up again,"" says James. ""It predated all that, too.""""I'm not asking for anyone to be interested in what's going on at Saucon,"" says Jordan. ""But look at racism as a whole. Especially with Trump. A lot of people don't believe he's a racist. I do."" Here, McHale-Small, who has been watching patiently, jumps in. ""I think a lot of people think that unless you're using the N-word, you're not being racist,"" she says. ""But the kind of racism that pervades is the more insidious, subtle, really more harmful type."" Getting the school board, parents and staff to agree with this premise is now McHale-Small's challenge. She's steadfast that the school's problems predated Trump. Yet McHale-Small had unintentionally painted a minor paradox: In honoring the taboo of discussing Trump's role at all, McHale-Small had revealed his relevance to the challenges of reconciliation in Saucon Valley. Blaming a president whom half your district voted for is not a shortcut to win hearts and minds – yet if Trump happens to spark conversations about decades-old biases, she seems to hint, perhaps the better. For now, here in her office, the boys struck a hopeful note about McHale-Small's newest venture, the community-wide Inclusion Committee, where they would report school experiences and offer recommendations to improve school life. ""After everything I've been through at this school, it's definitely a ray of light in the darkness,"" Jordan says. ""It's something I can look forward to."" McHale-Small, hearing this, smiles weakly. ""I don't want to be too Pollyannaish,"" she says. But Jordan persists. ""It's something I want my brother to look forward to,"" he continues, referring to his younger sibling in middle school. ""I don't want it to fail. I don't want to have people say, 'Oh you guys are from Sacuon Valley – isn't that a racist school?'""Though she conveyed hopefulness about her upcoming initiatives, McHale-Small was privately anticipating that the situation might worsen. Shortly after our meeting, Trump announced, then botched, a series of ordinances to block the travel of residents from several Muslim countries. McHale-Small had one more item in her arsenal to throw at the problem, and now seemed as good a time as any: She called in the Department of Justice. Shortly after Trump's ban was announced, a small team of federal personnel assembled with student leaders in the Saucon gymnasium. They were representatives from the Department's Community Relations Services. Nicknamed the Department ""Peacemakers,"" their official role is to liaise between civil rights groups and local governments. At Saucon, the division would be running its signature program, ""Student Problem Identifying and Resolving Issues Together,"" or SPIRIT. The program was first introduced to mediate gang rivalries in California high schools in the 1980s. Increasingly, it's been deployed to calm racial and ethnic tensions, inviting student leaders to join mediated, often emotional, discussions. Social-media flashpoints have increasingly become catalyst events. In a noteworthy case, a high school in Duluth, Minnesota invited the SPIRIT mediators after a Snapchat video circulated with an image of a black man and a noose around his neck. The sessions at Saucon lasted two days. Teams of Saucon Valley's students were assembled, with all ethnicities represented and to start, broken down into separate groups to discuss their experiences. James and Jordan participated among the black students. The students drew up a list of concerns, and debated them heatedly – including during an extended period when adults and administrators were asked to leave. ""It got intense at one point – one student almost going after another student,"" McHale-Small says. Students spoke in turn, at some points insisting and denying that there was a problem. By the second day, ""Kids were tearing up,"" she says. ""It was kind of cool."" After three years of effort, McHale-Small was clear-eyed about the value of any single program. But her concerns now lingered less on students than the adults – parents who took their children out of the DOJ event prematurely, and at least one teacher who suggested the students had been coached into affecting racial indignation. In her trepidation on how adults would value the program, McHale-Small was not alone – her concerns were shared by officials at the Department of Justice. One told Rolling Stone that ever since Jeff Sessions – a man whose record on racial discrimination once undermined his own case for the federal judiciary – became Attorney General, many DOJ staffers believe it could be a matter of time before Trump vilifies or cuts initiatives like SPIRIT. ""A lot of colleagues are demoralized. It's a frightening time,"" the official says. At the question of a changing racial atmosphere in the nation's schools – and whether Trump factors into this zeitgeist – the official only chuckled darkly. ""There's evidence everywhere that there's been an uptick in problems with schools, with changing demographics and politics,"" he said. ""There were plenty of opportunities [for Trump] to admonish folks for doing things that were overtly racist. And that hasn't happened."" On school students, he said, ""Yes, we do think that has an impact."" Last Valentine's Day, McHale-Small was driving her Subaru Crosstrek alone up I-95, racing back from a conference in Washington, D.C., to attend a meeting of the Saucon Valley school board. The board had recently voted to grant McHale-Small a new three-year term in October, calling her a ""gem"" and a ""change agent."" But the politics of dealing with the coming tsunami had seemed to deflate McHale-Small. ""It's an uncertain time for public education, and for the country. And for the underserved kids and people who have always been my focus, which are minority kids, and poor kids, and kids with disabilities,"" she later tells me. She adds that she might go work in advocacy or counseling – something more radical to her tastes. ""I just want to be able to work where I can exercise my mind freely, and not have to be careful.""That evening, she tendered her resignation to the board.Until her term ends in June, there will be plenty to keep her busy; she had recently learned some of the behavior had spread to the middle school. ""Nothing too explosive,"" she assured wearily. ""Mostly comments – 'Go back to your country.' The standard."" In another episode, McHale-Small was juggling how to approach a parent who had picked up his son from school with a confederate flag streaming from the back of his pickup truck. ""The parents were upset about that one,"" she added gamely, noting several days later that the man took the flag down before she even had to ask.Over the phone, there's the tinny clack of a car door slamming. ""I hate to disappoint people,"" she murmurs, her heels clicking down the hall toward the board room, where the board members had gathered. Also on the agenda: An upcoming series of teacher boot-camps, trainings she would oversee until the end of the semester. Inside, she murmured about her last few moments as superintendent: She couldn't say what would happen to her district, other than a hope that three years of effort would leave a mark. ""I want people to say, this was the best thing that has ever happened in Saucon Valley.""";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:07";1477
3;"The reaction to the premiere of religious scholar Reza Aslan's new CNN series Believer was, to put it mildly, zealous. In one particularly intense scene, Aslan eats human brain matter as part of his attempt to understand the Aghori, a sect of Hindus who use such shock tactics as a way to disrespect the caste system. The sequence drew ire from Hindu groups, including representatives of India's ruling nationalist party and American Representative Tulsi Gabbard. Aslan assiduously maintains, however, that this was merely a representation of what certain people believe – he had, after all, been asked to consume the material. ""We let the people involved do the talking,"" he tells Rolling Stone. Still, it's not surprising that Believer would provoke this kind of response; the series is practically designed to draw criticism. Each episode of the six-part series focuses on Aslan investigating a particular religion by adopting its traditions and rituals. The faith in question is depicted via one rather extreme, high-profile sect, and subsequently other milder, more humane adherents. By moving from the fundamentalists to the more recognizable, secular practitioners, Believer makes its central argument: that, ultimately, conflicting religions are not so different. But this seemingly mild thesis has proven, ironically, to be the most controversial thing Aslan could have said. Though the host dismisses much of the controversy over the Aghori episode as the result of both ""knee jerk critics"" and the series' sensationalist ad campaign, even he was somewhat taken aback by the response. In particular, he's received a surprising number of death threats – a form of correspondence he has to keep cataloged in a file. Aslan says he used to be able to ""shrug it off,"" but with a family and children, having a thick skin – and approaching this kind of work with a sense of fearlessness – has become harder.It's true that in the episode itself, Aslan repeatedly says that the incident is a misrepresentation of Hinduism, and isn't in line with what he's trying to do in the series – but the segment still aired. The ads are cut to highlight the most insane, lurid part of the episode in an attempt to draw largely non-religious eyeballs, but does that really alleviate all responsibility? Doesn't all television come with a mandate to seek out the most gripping images possible, even, perhaps especially, when presenting sensitive topics? Certainly, grappling with that ethical territory should – though often is not – part of the territory of airing something on a network like CNN. Part of the problem is that, while Aslan's focus is almost entirely on the nature of belief and how it connects people, it's difficult to extricate faith from its consequences. (Other roughly anthropological shows like, another of CNN's shows, Anthony Bourdain's Parts Unknown, tackle similar material without drawing the same criticism – almost certainly because religion is far more central to individual conceptions of identity.) Some of Believer's subjects are members of small communities, like a doomsday cult based out of Hawaii, run by a self-proclaimed prophet named Jezus with a ""Z."" But others, like Haitian vodou practitioners battling with Evangelical Christians, encompass far larger political conflicts.The Aghori episode might not even be the most controversial hour of Believer. That depends on the reception to the episode that focuses on the haredi, the extreme wing of Israel's Ultra-Orthodox community. Aslan describes this as ""the least hopeful"" episode of Believer, which seems like an understatement.During the episode, Aslan talks to Yakov Litzman, a member of the knesset (Israel's parliament) and the government's minister of health who is originally from Brooklyn, and who once compared LGBT Israelis to the ""sinners"" who danced around the golden calf. During an uncomfortable conversation with Aslan, Litzman flat-out refuses to even pretend he cares about secular Jews, let alone non-Jews. He can afford to, thanks to Israel's rapidly changing demographics and the haredi's place in the ruling coalition of the knesset.One of the secular Israeli Jews Aslan interviews recall being shouted at, blockaded from her, and attacked with bags of urine. Aslan talks to her from her car, because they would both be attacked by Ultra-Orthodox children upon getting out. One of Believer's own producers refused to believe the full extent of the Ultra-Orthodox community's political power in Israel, and CNN's Jerusalem bureau chief was brought in to fact-check the episode.One such child – the son of a couple who has invited Aslan into their home – excuses himself from the dinner table at 9 PM to return to studying, after a ten-hour day at yeshiva. Aslan admits that, as a father, the encounter made him uncomfortable – and it doesn't help that the boy's father, when asked point-blank about the possibility that his son might not grow up to sit around doing nothing but studying Torah, refuses to even consider it – but Aslan hears him out nonetheless.What are we to do when confronted with this kind of community? Aslan's commitment to humanizing people is noble, to the point of discomfort. (In the episode, he describes the haredi's commitment to following the Torah as ""beautiful."") But it also smacks of forced naivete. Asked whether he thinks there's a line beyond which the faithful are no longer deserving of his empathy – if their commitment to zealotry, oppression, and murder in the name of God ever make his quest to paint religions with the same brush dangerous – he sidesteps the question, trying to instead highlight what makes expressions of faith appealing even when they lead followers to monstrous actions.It's an approach that works shockingly well in the series' Scientology episode, which was something of a pet project for Aslan, who sees Scientology not as a dangerous cult but as, simply, a religion. (Are the things Scientologists believe any more ridiculous than the things other religious people believe? Aslan compares Scientology to Mormonism's early reception as the ""punchline to American Christianity."") Intriguingly, Aslan focuses on independent practitioners of Scientology, whose existence he compares to the Christian Reformation.The fissures within Scientology appear to have happened surprisingly quickly – the Reformation happened after over a millennium of Christianity, while Scientology has been around for just over 60 years – but Aslan sees them as the natural result of modern communication: ""The greatest threat to a church's control over its orthodoxy is the availability of information."" In this respect, the schism reflects Aslan's approach to these religions: increase the availability of information so the uninformed can understand their doctrines.If there's a second season for the show, Aslan plans to investigate several newer religions. There's caodai, a monotheistic religion in Vietnam that dates back to the 1920s and that Aslan describes as a ""distinctly Vietnamese spirituality that is syncretistic with all other elements of Vietnamese spiritually."" There's the neo-druid movement in the United Kingdom, which Aslan describes as of a piece with the ""nationalistic fervor"" that produced Brexit. And there's the John Frum cargo cult, worshipping a soldier from the Second World War who may or may not have existed, and a sort of messianic figure foretold to bring wealth to an island.The John Frum cult is the sort of religion that, with a different host, could be easy to exoticize. But understanding Aslan's approach, it's not hard to see how Believer will approach it. If we're supposed to come away thinking Scientology's beliefs aren't as strange as we may think, is it really that odd for believers to have their own Christ figure be an American G.I.? And like Scientology, the John Frum cult appears on the verge of splintering, consumed with its own sectarian conflict. ""No matter how small a religion is,"" Aslan says, ""there will always be people within it who find some reason to break away and make it even smaller,"" a process that, of necessity, ultimately means conflict.";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:08";1478
4;"Ten years ago, the first Mass Effect video game was hailed as the game that ""Does For Games What Star Wars Did For Films"". It was that rare blockbuster event in gaming whose impact transcended the medium, a pop culture phenomenon in its own right: James Gunn, the director of the exotic planet-hopping Marvel film Guardians of the Galaxy, has cited the series as among his ""biggest inspirations.""This week BioWare released Mass Effect Andromeda, which centers on an interstellar quest for habitable ""golden"" worlds beyond the Milky Way. The start of a new chapter in the series, Andromeda begins at the pointy end of a one-way, 634-year journey to a new galaxy, transporting players 2.5 million light years away from Earth. Here are three things to know about the making of this space adventure. Mass Effect takes its science seriouslyBioWare initiated meetings with the European Space Agency and crew members of the Mars-500 mission (""Those guys lived the story we're trying to tell, so they're a primary source of knowledge,"" says producer Fabrice Condominas) and special care was taken to calculate a realistic length of time for the journey to Andromeda. ""We can show you the math,"" say studio director Yanick Roy.Iceland, Hawaii and Utah helped inspired the alien landscapesTeams of artists were dispatched to Iceland, Hawaii and Moab and Goblin Valley in Utah to gather photogrammetric data on other-worldly landscapes. ""We don't have the budget to travel to other planets,"" says Roy. A couple of years ago, the team was alarmed to discover one of their more distinctive rocks appear in someone else's game, Star Wars Battlefront – whose artists, it turned out, had also been sent on a scouting mission in Iceland. ""It was a very good rock,"" says Brown.NASA's announcement about Trappist 1 possibly being home to a ""second Earth"" made an impact""I was just like – what?!"" says Andromeda creative director Mac Walters. ""It kind of felt like, that can't be real. But there's certainly a synergy with what we're doing with the game in Andromeda and what's happening in real life. The fun thing with doing something fictional is getting to ask, 'what else?' and 'what if?' on top of what's happening in the real world. We're exploring Andromeda in a time when people are once again looking at the stars. It doesn't feel like since the '60s have we had such a renaissance of stargazing and that wanderlust of what's out there.""You can read the full feature over on Glixel. ";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:09";1479
5;"Mortal Kombat, Tomb Raider, Donkey Kong, Pokemon Red and Green and ""Microsoft Windows Solitaire"" are among the 12 finalists for the World Video Game Hall of Fame's class of 2017, Associated Press reports.The nominees include Final Fantasy VII, Myst, Halo: Combat Evolved, Resident Evil, Portal, Street Fighter II and Wii Sports. The long-list was culled from thousands of nominations from over 100 countries, while Hall of Fame officials will rely on an international committee of video game scholars and journalists to choose the 2017 class. The winners will be inducted May 4th. Donkey Kong is the oldest game to be nominated this year. The pioneering arcade game from designer Shigeru Miyamoto launched in 1981 and not only made a star out of its titular villain, but notably featured the first appearance of Mario (then known as Mr. Video and later Jumpman). The majority of the potential inductees, however, are from the Nineties, capturing the technical advances, growing market power and cultural influence of video games during that decade. For instance, Final Fantasy VII was a best seller and pioneered 3D computer graphics, while Tomb Raider and Resident Evil offered new kinds of stories and showed the franchise potential for video games in other mediums. The realistic violence of Mortal Kombat, meanwhile, made it a massive hit and the subject of Congressional debate, eventually spurring the creation of the Entertainment Software Rating Board. More contemporary nominees like Halo and Portal expanded on these storytelling, gameplay and franchise trends in the 2000s, while Wii Sports marked a major technological leap with its motion-control technology. The 2017 long-list also marks the third time Pokémon Red and Green has been nominated for the Video Game Hall of Fame. The groundbreaking 1996 Game Boy game (released as Red and Blue in the United States) remains a cultural force 20 years later, with a new smartphone edition, Pokémon Go, debuting last year. The Video Game Hall of Fame inducted its first class in 2015 and is housed at the Strong National Museum of Play in Rochester, New York (where the National Toy Hall of Fame is also located). Among the games currently in the Hall of Fame are Super Mario Bros., Tetris, World of Warcraft, Pong, Pac-Man, Grand Theft Auto III, The Legend of Zelda and The Sims.";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:10";1480
6;"Anne Hathaway came in like a ""Wrecking Ball"" for Thursday's Lip Sync Battle versus Emily Blunt. Borrowing Miley Cyrus' distinct video look of a tank-top and tighty whiteys, Hathaway mimes the lyrics with desperation, even slipping in an up-close diss to Blunt with the line ""I guess I should've let you win."" But the grand finale – a swing on an actual wrecking ball – whips the crowd into a frenzy, leaving her opponent (and host LL Cool J) speechless on the sidelines.Related                                                              On the Set of TV’s New 'Lip Sync Battle' Show              Spike's new series brings famous people competitively fake-singing from 'Tonight Show' to primetime            To her credit, Blunt brings the soul-rock thunder with her performance of the Big Brother and the Holding Company version of ""Piece of My Heart,"" getting in character as a fur coat-wearing Janis Joplin. (""I feel like I was at the Woodstock after-party,"" cracks LL.) But this round was an easy Hathaway K.O.For her take on Mary J. Blige's ""Love,"" Hathaway scales back the theatrics for a sparser approach – and her mix of fake singing and rapping (and real high-kicks) is pretty impressive. Still, Blunt's explosive fake belting of Blackstreet's 1996 New Jack Swing anthem ""No Diggity"" is the clear victor this round. (Hathaway, suffering the sting of defeat, refuses to let her competitor finish and seizes the mic with a Kanye-at-VMAs-styled interruption.)Lip Sync Battle – a spinoff of The Tonight Show's popular recurring segment where celebrities mime their favorite hits – premiered last week on Spike, with Jimmy Fallon squaring off against Dwayne ""The Rock"" Johnson. The late-night host recruited a robe-wearing choir for his version of Madonna's ""Like a Prayer,"" but the actor-wrestler reigned supreme with a hilarious take on the Bee Gee's disco classic ""Stayin' Alive"" – Saturday Night Fever suit and all.";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:16";1481
7;"It started with the title – a simple name, not Wolverine IV, or the X-man's handle with an overblown subtitle attached to it, or even something akin to The Wolverine, which included a definite article lest you confuse him with other sharp-clawed mutant superheroes. Then came the first trailer, a stark preview set to Johnny Cash's version of ""Hurt."" There was no ""in a world ..."" narration, no giant robots, no costumes; Patrick Stewart's Charles Xavier briefly showed up, as did a mysterious man bandaged up like Claude Rains and someone who was clearly a bad guy, Otherwise, there were no other X-men in sight. Rather than a big city being used as a battleground, we got a desolate, abandoned power station that might have been down the road from Fury Road. Hugh Jackman had a full beard. You could tell this would be different. The whole thing felt funereal from the get-go.By now, you know that Logan, the final spin-off chapter in the Wolverine saga (or at least the last-Jackman-standing swan song for the actor with this character) has been proclaimed the single best superhero movie ever and possibly the greatest thing since admantium-sliced bread. Reviews have been raves for the most part, and the opening weekend box office was a whopping $88.3 million domestically and $240.8 million globally. It's a blockbuster hit by any standard. You also probably know that it more than earns its R-rating and is not afraid to show you what happens when those claws get popped, in graphic and bloody detail. (That phrase ""heads will roll""? It's not just figurative here.) Wolverine is finally allowed to properly break bad. There's also a young girl with a similar gift for zero-to-rage violence and gnarly, weaponized hands and feet. She breaks even worse.And if you've seen the movie, you know that it very much represents the end – not just of the character's journey from freak of nature to nurturer, but of a certain way of thinking about what superhero movies can be. The repeated refrain you'll hear from critics is that Logan is a ""real movie,"" as opposed to a teaser for future installments, or a feature-length Easter egg for fans, or something primarily designed to move lunchboxes and stock prices. Oh, we're still getting those – there's another Guardians of the Galaxy and another new Spider-Man coming in the next few months, the latest Avengers adventure is filming as we speak, Fox is doubling down on Deadpool and D.C.'s troubled, grumpy cine-universe megillah is just getting started. But courtesy of director James Mangold, his cowriters Scott Frank and Michael Green, and a studio that took a leap of faith, we've witnessed what can be accomplished when you allow a superhero movie to go into bolder, more complicated, less comfortable and downright demographic-unfriendly territory. What you get is an evolutionary step forward for a genre that was in desperate need of one.It's been a long time coming, sometimes frustratingly so. For folks old enough to remember when Tim Burton's Batman came out, the idea of doing a live-action superhero project that wasn't all camp bams, blams and kapows – that, in fact, detoured into the darker-underbelly territory that comics themselves had just started exploring a few years prior – felt like uncharted waters. The movie's runaway success ironically meant one small step for (bat)man, one giant leap backwards for the bigger picture; cue slowly diminishing returns, waves of inferior imitators and nipples on batsuits. Then came X-Men (2000), and a new way forward revealed itself. If Richard Donner's Superman made you believe a man could fly, Bryan Singer's mutant melodrama made you believe you could make a serious superhero movie set in a believably realistic world. Almost everything that followed – the first round of Spider-Man movies, Christopher Nolan's doom-and-gloom Dark Knights of the soul, the rapidly multiplying MCU pop opera – built off that foundation.What was an event-movie phenomenon started to become a bona fide genre, and you assumed this would morph into our modern version of the Western: moral fables in mass-entertainment drag, dressed up in capes instead of chaps. You also naively figured it would eventually follow the same trajectory, moving from Saturday matinee fodder to examining more complicated notions of right vs. wrong, social order, truth, justice and the contradictory American way. It's not a coincidence that the film that looked like it would be the tipping point, The Dark Knight, is basically The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance; it's a shame that it eventually feels like its being constricted by its own conventions and instead just codified the idea that somber is, like, so cool. (Dark is the new black!) This was the high point, and it still felt stuck in the middle in terms of the superhero movie's potential to actually say something. And once the tentpole era kicked in, the bottom line dictated you stuck to the sure thing. You can tweak it to look like a WWII romp, a conspiracy thriller, a space adventure, a workplace comedy, a psychedelic trip. Just don't mess with the recipe.And let's be honest: Wolverine did not seem like the one to push things in a new direction. Introduced initially as a foil for the Hulk in the comics, he joined the mutant superhero gang shortly after a team reboot and quickly established himself as the resident hairy-forearmed X-badass. The most iconic image of him still remains the cover of the 1982 four-issue miniseries written by Chris Claremont and drawn by Frank Miller (who'd battle-scar Batman a few years later), presenting a smiling scrapper with what looked like three katana swords sticking out of a fist and a come-at-me-bro vibe. Jackman played him with a combo of self-awareness and brooding tough-guy chic, giving the wandering warrior a lot of soul and little variation. He's a fairly conservative screen character: Glare, go berserk, feel guilty, rinse, repeat. Even fans began to feel fatigue, especially once the field became crowded with superhero antiheroes. Mangold had another idea, however. What if you fucked with the whole template? What if you finally gave the superhero movie its Wild Bunch, its Unforgiven?So, borrowing heavily from Mark Millar and Steve McNiven's eight-issue alt-storyline ""Old Man Logan"" in Wolverine's solo books (read an excellent breakdown of it here), Logan's creative team went full HAM. It's 2029, something has wiped all those mutants you know and loved out, and Jackman's killing machine is working as a chauffeur. His healing power is practically on the fritz, and he can barely retract his signature slice-and-dice appendages. He's old, and dying; so, for that matter, is his decrepit mentor Charles, now prone to dementia and uncontrollable psychic outbursts. One day on a job, the man formerly known as the Wolverine is recognized by a woman who has a favor to ask. Take care of a young, fugitive Mexican girl named Laura (Dafne Keen), she pleads. She's like you. Enter a private army, working on behalf of someone who also wants the kid.What follows is the sort of untamed, unhinged mayhem usually associated with Asia Extreme movies, Hong Kong action films, fraternity hazing weeks and UFC bouts, as claws meet flesh and Caro syrup manufacturers work overtime. The trio hits the road and looks for sanctuary, specifically a Canadian Eden for next-gen mutants that Laura knows from ... an X-Men comic book. (""That wasn't how it happened at all,"" Logan says about those literary adventures. When the legend becomes fact ....) And though superhero-movie tropes are certainly present and accounted for – there will be gravity-defying leaps, and pyrotechnics, and clones – there's a palpable sense of mortality and mournfulness in Logan that feels leagues above your average steroidal heroes v. villains showdown. ""I hurt people, too,"" Laura admits, talking to the one person who understands the genetically engineered killer inside her. ""Bad people."" ""All the same ...,"" Logan replies, letting the reply hang. Deserve's got nothing to do with it. It's still killing, and you have still have to deal with having dealt the hand.Other superhero films have eggshell-pecked around the toll of costumed do-goodery and the collateral damage done (see Civil War), and as Deadpool proved, you can break the PG-13 ceiling and still rake in box office returns. But the former still feels like a better-than-most advertisement for non-stop Make Mine Marvelmania: The Movie (TM), and no one could accuse the latter of being mature just because there's more blood and ""fucks"" in it than usual. Logan is unique. Its violence may be cathartic but the carnage emphasizes the cost. Its set pieces are thrilling but are followed by conversations suffused with regret, sorrow and a rage against the dying of the light. We're watching characters we've invested in weep and wallow in despair. Even without the copious Shane references here, the movie suggests a a ride into the sunset, one last stab at a noble gesture before all that literal stabbing gets karmic.This is not what superhero movies do. They squander their potential for depth in the name of self-perpetration and tune-in-next-financial-quarter serial storytelling and sucking the oxygen out of the multiplex. Logan kills that idea as the end-all be-all. Temporarily, of course – like its hero way back in his prime, these too-big-to-fail films will heal and rise again and take over the world. But with this last-gasp X-entry's success and its embrace from audiences ready for something new, we know have a plausible alternative universe, one in which the genre's potential to tap into chewier, heavier narratives has a proven track record and can perpetuate equally substantial stories within the framework. It needed to show people that it can be, among many other things, something that didn't just reflect back our need for escapism. We may be, at long last, entering the superhero movie's Homo superior phase.Watch Hugh Jackman's Wolverine gain ally in gripping Logan trailer.";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:18";1482
8;"Not far from the big round dome atop the Griffith Observatory, leaning on a railing that overlooks the Greater Los Angeles sinkhole, the German director Werner Herzog, 74, removes a tissue from his pocket and dabs at his eyes. His eyes are leaking. They've been leaking for the past hour or so. The tear fluid builds up in the corner of one of his blue eyes, then starts to cascade down his cheeks, halted only when he dab, dab, dabs.He does not explain this. In fact, him being Herzog, he would never 
explain this, if only because it's not in his nature to even think about
 something so trivial and beside the point. Only one thing matters to 
him: his movies. He's got two new feature films coming out: Salt and Fire, an ecological thriller, and Queen of the Desert,
 a biopic about the British explorer Gertrude Bell. Plus, just 
yesterday, he returned from Austria, where he opened a Herzog 
retrospective that includes everything he's ever done, from his early 
career-establishers (1972's Aguirre, the Wrath of God and 1982's Fitzcarraldo) to his more recent documentaries (2016's Lo and Behold, Reveries of the Connected World,
 about the possible existential consequences of an Internet-driven 
world), along the way revealing much about what interests and fascinates
 him – in brief, everything. He's made movies about nomads, auctioneers,
 televangelists, monks, hot-air balloonists, ski-jumping woodcarvers, 
volcanic eruptions, cave paintings, grizzly-loving (and eventually 
grizzly-eaten) loner outdoorsmen, desolate Antarctic snowscapes – the 
list does not end. He's been called ""a genius,"" ""a madman,"" ""a 
visionary,"" ""the last great hallucinator in cinema"" – and that list does
 not end either.Today, he's frowning and speaking in his famous half-flat, half-amused Germanic voice. ""Yes, they are showing all 70 of my films,"" he says, ""but there may be more. It depends on how you count. For example, some people count the eight films in my 'Death Row' series as one film. So, do you count it as eight or do you count it as one? I guess it depends on your mood."" He pauses. Then he says, ""I've never counted them myself. I don't care.""Which is just like him to say, to display a good bit of interest in the mundane, then proclaim no interest whatsoever. On the other hand, there's no curbing his ardor once he starts in on how his documentaries are so vastly different from almost everyone else's, mainly because his contain made-up elements, which he believes is a good thing, since pure fact is apparently just another hobgoblin of the feebleminded.""In the film I did about the oil fires burning in Kuwait,"" he says, puffing up his chest a little, ""it starts off with a quote from [17th-century philosopher and physicist] Blaise Pascal. And it's a beautiful one. It says, 'The collapse of the stellar universe will occur like creation, in grandiose splendor.' But Blaise Pascal did not say that. I did.""Without explaining how making up quotes improves anything, he swiftly 
offers another example, this one involving the radioactive albino mutant
 crocodiles that appear at the end of 2010's Cave of Forgotten Dreams.
 Seems that while they are indeed albino, they're not radioactive or 
mutant, Herzog snorts. ""My producer said, 'You cannot do that because if
 you do, one day they'll take you away in a straitjacket.' And I said, 
'Fine! That's a moment I look forward to!'?"" He goes on, ""Those who tell
 you we should be like the fly on the wall are losers. Losers! They make
 what I call 'the accountant's truth.' But I am fascinated by the 
possibilities for a deeper stratum of truth, although please don't ask 
me what I mean by truth, because nobody can answer that one. But, you 
see, we are creators. What I do is elevate the audience. I'm 
intensifying facts to such a degree that they start to get the glow of 
illumination for you. They acquire insight and poetry of an ecstatic 
nature, like medieval monks.""A moment of silence follows. Herzog's words hang in the air with the 
kind of significance that only he, with his even-keeled, softly forceful
 delivery, can bring to them. It's the same delivery that inhabits his 
documentaries and films, and thus makes him and his movies seem 
intertwined and all part of some kind of ongoing public performance.The most important thing to know about Herzog is that his first childhood memory is of the Bavarian city of Rosenheim, during the last World War, engulfed in fire after a bombing raid in 1945, as seen at night from a distant hill, he and his older brother brought there by their mother, to witness the kind of destruction that had caused them to flee Munich and live in a remote backwoods Bavarian Alps village, no running water, no toilets, no phones, cut off from all civilization but for this one surreal vision.Right now, Herzog is looking out at the vast sweep of Los Angeles, but his thoughts are still on the fire.""At the end of the valley,"" he says, ""you saw the sky orange and yellowish and red. And my mother said, 'Boys, the city of Rosenheim is burning.' The entire sky was pulsing. And I knew there was a big city out there burning. And it was more beautiful than anything."" Such was his first taste of the glow of illumination that is, in theory at least, at the heart of all his documentaries.As to the heart of the man himself, the stories most often trotted out to define him have always been of the look-at-Herzog-isn't-he-nuts variety, and they are legion. He walked 1,000 miles to propose to his first wife. A random, errant bullet winged him in the gut during a live interview once (and to whom but Herzog could this ever have happened?) and he kept right on talking, brushing aside the wound as coming from ""an insignificant bullet."" He started a film school called the Rogue Film School, said he preferred that his students be ""people who have worked as bouncers in a sex club or have been wardens in the lunatic asylum,"" and featured courses on the art of lock-picking and forging filming permits. He knows how to hypnotize chickens. He spent two years in the Amazon jungle trying to haul a steamboat over a mountain for Fitzcarraldo. Earlier, while filming Aguirre, the Wrath of God, the star of that film, the late, totally insane Klaus Kinski, threatened to leave the project. Herzog said he'd shoot him, and Kinski stayed put. When Kinski was writing his autobiography, he and Herzog, Roget's Thesaurus in hand, collaborated on Kinski's description of the director as ""dull, humorless, uptight, inhibited?.?.?.?hateful, malevolent."" Also long-winded: ""Even if his throat were cut and his head were chopped off, speech balloons would still dangle from his mouth.""And yet what does any of it really say about Herzog, the pallor-faced, 
balding, slightly rumpled figure standing here today? In a sense, it all
 seems to obscure the man as much as reveal him.Herzog and his family returned to Munich when he was 12; he began 
watching films, came across a 15-page encyclopedia entry on filmmaking 
and discovered his life's purpose. He kick-started his dreams by 
stealing a camera from a Munich film school, with not a second's regret.
 ""I don't consider it theft,"" he once said. ""It was just a necessity. I 
had some sort of natural right for a camera."" So, even then, he was full
 of himself. And today he says, ""Very early in life, I have understood 
my destiny. My destiny has been made known to me. And I have a duty to 
it. They sometimes call me 'mad.' But that's just a projection of 
things, maybe of my leading characters, onto the person who created 
them. If I could be anonymous, that would be best. But I don't care. I 
don't care whether they label me. The only thing that counts is what's 
up on the screen."" He looks down at his feet. He goes on, ""I own very, 
very few things. The shoes I'm wearing are the only shoes that I own, 
along with a pair of heavy boots and a pair of really good sandals. This
 is what I wear."" He plucks at his sweater. ""I wear the same sweater all
 the time. It's wool.""His first film was a short, in 1962, titled Herakles, and featured bodybuilders intercut with scenes from a Le Mans car-race wreck that cost some 80 spectators their lives. ""For me, it was fascinating to edit material together that had such separate and individual lives,"" he once said, a technique that he's used ever since, sometimes making it up as he goes along, what with his phony crocodiles and all. Then, in 1972, came Aguirre, the Wrath of God, which follows a Spanish soldier, played by Kinski, as he searches for El Dorado, the lost city of gold, and only finds madness and death. It bombed and was immediately dropped by theaters. ""?'This is it,'?"" Herzog says he thought. ""?'I'm fucked.'?"" In 1975, however, two small theaters in Paris picked it back up and started it on a sold-out run that lasted for two and a half years. ""So, it caught on,"" says Herzog, ""but even then not very well, but a decade later it was rereleased and two decades later rereleased, and all of a sudden it became some sort of a household item. But it took 35 years.""Through it all, he's been married three times (""It has somehow been harsh to live with me""), had three kids, told one and all he doesn't own a cellphone and said a bunch of other portentous stuff like, ""Men are haunted by things that happen to them in life.""And what haunts him?""I don't want to understand what haunts me,"" he says. ""I do not like self-inspection.""He's going on now about President Trump, saying, ""He's the first time you have a real independent. He's turned against the Republican Party, and he's vehemently against the media, justifiably so to some degree, and I find this a very significant novelty. I see significant changes and significant new approaches. Trump and Bernie Sanders stuck out because he's authentic. And it's mysterious how Trump is getting away with literally everything. I see it with great, strange fascination. Very, very unusual."" He refuses to specifically say whether he likes Trump or not, but it often sounds like he does.Then he talks about the Internet and some of the dangers featured in Lo and Behold. ""We are a civilization that is overdependent on the Internet at a time when the population is at least one and a half times too big. If the Internet goes down, all the basic things of our civilization will be wiped out. It'll be like Hurricane Katrina [but] in New York, no electricity, no running water, tens of thousands of people roaming the streets in search for a toilet. There's only Central Park for food, and only a few squirrels there.""Left to his own devices, he'll go on like this forever, spinning out his
 various visions of the world. After a while, however, it gets to be a 
little much. His distaste for self-inspection noted, perhaps it's time 
to wander over that way again anyhow.Does he have any vices?Lips purse. ""No. Nothing comes to mind.""What makes him happy?A scowl, one that pulls together many of the folds and creases in his face. ""Oh, happiness isn't of so much importance to me.""What is he afraid of?""Fear is not in my vocabulary. It just doesn't exist in me. The scarier a situation gets, the more calm I am.""He once said, ""In my profession, you have to know the heart of men."" So what about his heart? Does he know it?His mouth turns down, his lips press hard, he shakes his head. ""Look. I don't circle around my own navel. I'm not interested in myself. You should not expose the deepest recesses of your own soul. It doesn't do anyone any good.""Before he goes, however, Herzog says a few more things about himself. He sometimes cries during movies, and once, while watching a silent film called La Passion de Jeanne d'Arc, he fainted dead away, as he also tends to do whenever blood is drawn from his arm. He's never tasted any kind of illicit drug and is not in favor of legal drugs either. ""I have taken less than 10 aspirins in my whole life,"" he says. He will enjoy a glass of red wine, but the last time he got drunk he was 13. He has no hobbies. ""Not a one.""He's entirely single-minded, every action directed toward the re-creation, in one way or another, of the fires that burned Rosenheim to the ground.While promoting Grizzly Man, ""My wife, Lena, took a photo where you can see a grizzly bear right behind me. She was worried about my safety. But I couldn't care less. I only disliked the situation because the bear was so close that I could smell his very foul breath. It's a very foul breath. So I didn't like that. But that was the only thing."" He pauses, then goes on, ""I'm not that interested in whether I perish or not. It would be of very minor significance."" As long, of course, as his films, all 70 or 78 of them, he's never counted, survive his bloody mauling and stick around to glow with such illumination as only he alone is capable of producing.";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:25";1483
9;"When you walk into the Winter Garden Theatre in Toronto, the first thing you see are leaves — crisp-looking, fall-colored, hanging in mass from the low-ceiling over the back seats. It's the sort of aesthetic flourish designed to make you feel that you're not just watching, say, a production of A Midsummer Night's Dream, you're sitting in the middle of it. And in its own weird way, this quaint touch added to the experience of seeing the festival's first public showing of Moonlight, Barry Jenkins' ambitious sophomore movie about a young African-American male's coming-of-age and breaking-of-spirit. Such an immersive, sensuous film will already make you feel that you've stepped into another world entirely, one of painfully sunny Miami afternoons where dealers make their paper and deep-blue midnights at a beach where melancholy handjobs take place. The addition of nature, theatrically manufactured or otherwise, only enhances the movie's already palpable sense of you-are-there Southerness. But it isn't like this extraordinary character study required extra atmospheric elements to make you feel the love and heartbreak of its lonely hero. This is a masterpiece no matter where or how you present it.Ah yes, the M-word — so overused and abused, so very dangerous to throw around when you're talking about an artist with only two films under his belt. But Moonlight earns the right to be identified as a cinematic pinnacle as well as a personal statement; this is what ""the movies"" look like when the medium's full arsenal of expression is being tapped by someone with vision. In adapting playwright Tarell Alvin McCraney's work ""In Moonlight Black Boys Look Blue,"" Jenkins has found a vehicle for refracting various aspects of African-American life through the prism of one sensitive kid's bumpy journey to manhood, one woozy, swooning shot at a time. And like that experience, nothing about the narrative he's presenting is simple: The local drug-slinger (Mahershala Ali) is both a neighborhood destroyer and a nurturing father figure to Chiron, a picked-on kid in desperate need of a guide. The boy's best friend Kevin is both a belligerent high-school bully's muscle-for-hire and someone who'll provide Chiron with his introduction to physical intimacy. Mom (Naomie Harris) is a protective figure trying to keep the lad from falling under the sway of bad folks while also buying crack from those exact same people. Everyone contains multitudes. Everyone is a human being.As for Chiron, well ... he's a quiet, near-silent kid filled with anger, shame and the sense that something about him is different. His peers pick up on the fact that he's gay before he does, which only adds to the confusion and alienation he feels both inside and outside his household. (In one of the movie's best scenes, Chiron asks the dealer and his girlfriend, played by Janelle Monáe, what a ""faggot"" is. The older man sympathetically replies ""a word designed to make gay people hate themselves""; the shot of Monáe slowly shaking her head when he starts to add a qualifier is the GIF everybody should be getting for Christmas.) Played as a prepubescent by Alex Hibbert and as a teen by Ashton Sanders, the character is defined by his passiveness and his isolation, whether sitting in a bath with stove-warmed water, standing out at the shore at dusk or staring into the camera in a school nurse's office after a severe beating. Until, suddenly, he's not passive at all — and by the time we catch up with his third incarnation, played by Trevante Rhodes, the prison-bulky physique and gold fronts immediately tell you what's happened to him in the interim. The successful narco-entrepreneur, the crack-addict mom, the homophobic alpha-male thug, the beta-male kid who's pushed too far, the gay teen coming out in dire circumstances — these are clichés. Jenkins, however, inverts every single one of these aspects and weaves them into the mix in a way that tells this boy-to-man tale like a mosaic made out of broken, refitted materials. Familiarity does not breed contempt here, especially when the shorthand qualities are filtered through such a sumptuous visual palette; the use of color in particular, with tons of midnight blues, bruised purples and the occasional Miami neon-pastel splash, turns this into something far more impressionistic than your average bleak, life-is-hard drama or tragic love story. ""Whenever I make a formal choice, I want it to be rooted in something,"" Jenkins said at the post-screening Q&amp;A, which sounds obvious until you realize how few filmmakers seem to be doing that these days, in either the studio or indie sectors. You watch the way he works with actors (all of the performances feel perfectly attuned), you see how he collaborates with cinematographer James Laxton and how he's found his own connection through McCraney's theater piece, and you realize you're in solid hands here. Every camera movement feels accounted for.By the time we get to film's final act, in which a buffed-up Chiron, now known as ""Black,"" returns to visit his now-grown buddy (played by The Knick's André Holland), and the two men catch up in the latter's restaurant, we've already watched the character go through several rounds of self-demolition. To say that Jenkins gifts Chiron a deserved moment of peace is to underplay the impact of the movie's last long, laconic conversational set pieces; the gesture of healing that the filmmaker presents in a silent, penultimate shot is the most quietly devastating reward you will get as a moviegoer this season. It's been eight years since Jenkins gave us his debut Medicine for Melancholy, and many of us in Toronto had been hoping he'd made the most of the time to, if nothing else, avoid a sophomore slump. Instead, as we all realized while standing and clapping and sobbing while the director and the cast took the stage and the leaves above us felt like they were rustling over our heads that he'd just given us a rare gift. We would be leaving the theater as different people than we'd come in. We'd seen a unicorn. We'd seen an M-word.";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:27";1484
10;"It turns out that the anything-goes murderfest The Purge: Election Year was not the grisliest bloodbath at the movies this past weekend. In accordance with the time-honored ""the bigger they are, the harder they fall"" principle, Steven Spielberg's The BFG took a giant-sized dive at the box office over the holiday break. Despite working with a $140 million budget, the hopeful Disney blockbuster could only muster up a meager $22.2 million from domestic audiences, with an additional $3.9 million from overseas markets. For scale, consider that alarm klaxons started sounding when Alice Through the Looking Glass put up $33.5 million at the end of May.Related                                                              PHOTOS: Steven Spielberg's Movies, Ranked Worst to Best              From 'Saving Private Ryan' to 'Raiders,' the King of Hollywood's work from completists-only to modern classics            Granted, this could turn out to be a slow-burner type of hit that builds up healthier grosses as it slowly gains traction, but for now, this marks the biggest flop for the usually-dependable director since his ill-fated war comedy 1941 way back in 1979. Disney must have felt like it had a slam dunk on deck by giving Spielberg the green light to adapt the beloved kids-lit author's work; the filmmaker made a name for himself with fantastical tales glimpsed through the eyes of children. And hey, if they played their cards right, there might have even been a shower of Oscar gold in the film's future. (It wasn't too long ago that Hugo, Martin Scorsese's foray into kids' entertainment, earned 11 Academy Award nominations and clinched five.)So what happened?Emotion can be a tough sell The main virtue of The BFG is its big friendly heart, apparent in the tender relationship between the Mark Rylance-voiced titan and the precocious-tot protagonist Sophie (Ruby Barnhill). But compared to the visual dynamism of a chomping shark, a flying saucer or a shriveled-up alien, the bond between a girl and her giant is not an easy thing to sell in a trailer. While that sentimental streak is a key part of Spielberg's directorial style, it's usually paired with something that can widen the eyes or drop the jaw on a first glance. There are awe-inspiring sequences in the film — notably a sequence in which the main pair journey to a gorgeous dreamscape filled with surreal forestry and reflective pools. But the closest that the commercials have come to an indelible image would probably be the film's mammoth best friend sprinting through the countryside with trees blowing in his wake, or slicing the oozing, gross-out fruit he subsists on. Impressive animation or not, that wasn't enough jaw-dropping wonder to sell the film to audiences, nor was it enough to communicate the emotional bond which was the film's bread and butter.The mixed reviews Kids couldn't give a damn about notices one way or the other, but the parents who ultimately buy the tickets may have been turned off by the film's lukewarm reception. Though it currently enjoys a 71-percent approval rating on review aggregator site Rotten Tomatoes, Rolling Stone's own Peter Travers offered numerous caveats in his review, notably that ""things get 'a bit grumbly' — to borrow a BFG phrase — when the worlds of Spielberg and Dahl collide."" That comment reflected a solid faction of critics who felt that the fantasy couldn't conjure the same magic as the filmmaker's past triumphs. In a marketplace where an oddly-titled adaptation of a Dahl novel not featuring gigantic peaches or chocolate factories has to compete with Pixar's latest, such faint praise (or in several cases, outright flagellations) could not have helped things.No stars, no spectaclesBridge of Spies benefited from slapping Tom Hanks' beautiful, marketable mug onto its posters. Lincoln had the benefit of the world's greatest living actor sinking his incisors into an already-iconic role. Leonardo DiCaprio, Harrison Ford, Tom Cruise — the A-list of Spielberg's actors goes on. But not only does The BFG lack any immediately recognizable faces, there's not even a flashy-looking monster to show off in the advertisements. All it had was an Oscar-winner better known for his stage work and a family of giants — who are, when you get down to it, a bunch of slightly-weird-looking old guys. (Even the poster for his 2011 adaptation of The War Horse offered a beautiful thoroughbred as audiencebait.) This earthy, lower-key take on the summer blockbuster was short on recognizable faces and the brand-name bombast in vogue right now — a lose-lose situation marketing-wise.Holiday weekend hobbled box-office across the board It's not as if The BFG was edged out by a gigantic new release racking up accordingly huge grosses. This was a weak weekend for movies, period — enough that Finding Dory (in its third week of release) took the top spot once again with a robust $50 million take, leaving a considerable berth from the three new studio releases. With audiences taking trips or [gulp] spending quality time with their families, that left The Purge: Election Year with a $34.7 million gross and the steamy new Alexander Skarsgard/Margot Robbie Tarzan with $45.5 million, neither of which are anything to crow about. In what's already been a dismal summer for nationwide cineplexes, the start of July was another little valley, and that certainly didn't help boost The BFG's chances for finding an audience.It's a generational thing Consider this: Roald Dahl's book was published in 1982, meaning that many of the kids who grew up on it be slightly too young to have moviegoing-aged children of their own. Situated right where Gen X ends and the millennial territory begins, the novel's core fanbase is currently in their mid-to-late-twenties and early thirties. If Disney was gunning for the nostalgia dollar with this adaptation of a kiddie cult classic, holding off for another eight to 10 years could have made a world of difference. As it was, the film may have fallen into the middle of a generation gap. There's something cosmic about the way that this odd-bird film has met the same fate as its gawky, misfit hero — unappreciated for its odd charms, save for a select few.";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:29";1485
11;"MOSCOW — At 11 a.m. they knocked at her door. On Tuesday morning, a dozen officials from the Russian Investigative Committee arrived to search Zoya Svetova’s apartment. The 57-year-old human-rights defender and journalist is acknowledged internationally as a leading expert on the repressive methods of the state, prison institutions, and violations committed by Russian law-enforcement agencies. Now they were in her home in the heart of Moscow.Eight hours into the search, Svetova, her 18-year-old daughter, her husband, and dog still could not leave the apartment. It took a long time for the officials to go through all the private belongings. There were too many books in Svetova’s library; there was too much art around her spacious apartment, too many notes between children, parents, and grandparents. The house could be a private history museum of Soviet and post-Soviet repressions. News of the search was greeted with a dark sense of déja vu by everybody who knew Svetova and her family.Once over tea in the kitchen of her home, Svetova told me about the arrests of both of her parents, Feliks Svetov and Zoya Krakhmalnikova, dissident writers in Soviet times. In 1982, just like this morning, the KGB came to search her mother’s books and notes.The oldest of her four children, Filipp, was still a baby then. The officers looked everywhere, even between the sheets of Filipp’s little baby bed. “My children know what the KGB and the Gulag are like. They grew up hearing about repressions from my parents, from us,” Svetova said in the interview.During the raid at Svetova’s house on Tuesday, her three sons—Filipp, Timofei, and Tikhon, all well-known journalists—tried to reach their parents on the phone but in vain.“It was just the same back on January, 23, 1985, on the day of my birthday, when my mother tried to reach her home on the phone, to tell the happy news: They raided my grandfather Feliks Svetov’s home then,” Svetova’s son Timofei Dzyadko wrote on Facebook. Svetova’s parents were freed only in 1987, thanks to the policies of Mikhail Gorbachev.For many years under Putin’s rule, Svetova has reported stories about Russian authorities violating human rights. As a member of a commission monitoring prisons, Svetova reported on the life of inmates from the inside of Russia’s jails. She reported her stories for independent outlets, including the OpenRussia.org website that is sponsored by Russia’s most famous ex-prisoner, President Vladimir Putin’s powerful critic Mikhail Khodorkovsky.On the day Putin pardoned Khodorkovsky in December 2013, after 10 long years keeping him in prison, the former oil tycoon moved abroad. In an ideal world, Khodorkovsky could have developed into a global philanthropist, a Russian George Soros. But Khodorkovsky kept a narrower focuse. As with Soros’s Open Democracy organization, Khodorkovsky’s Open Russia aimed to bring about social change by supporting civil society. It is still very active. In an interview Tuesday, Khodorkovsky’s Open Russia team members told The Daily Beast about eight new projects, all recently launched.From his home in London, Khodorkovsky spends his money and time supporting the Russian opposition, as well as sponsoring the future Russian intellectual and technocratic elites: scientists, economists, IT experts, and journalists.Russian authorities have not welcomed Khodorkovsky and his money developing civil society Russia, and his team in Moscow has been under tremendous pressure ever since an international court of arbitration ruled in the summer of 2014 that Russia had to pay $50 billion for taking over Khodorkovsky’s company Yukos and expropriating its assets. In 2015, a Russian court even charged him in absentia with murder.Beginning in December that year, investigators searched the homes of more than a dozen of Khodorkovsky’s employees, looking for any evidence related to the ongoing legal investigation against his Yukos oil company.The official justification for the search of Svetova’s house was related to the investigation into “stolen assets” supposedly taken from Yukos by Khodorkovsky, since he has funded some of her reporting.“This raid at Svetova’s house is a threatening gesture, meant to suppress and break her free independent spirit,” Stanislav Belkovsky, an independent analyst and Rain TV host told The Daily Beast.According to Maria Baronova, Open Russia project coordinator, “For over a year the investigators of Yukos case have been interrogating and searching the homes of our employees, whose tax declarations they found during the previous raids.”As an opposition activist, Baronova herself has experienced hours of intimidating interrogations. A few years ago state social workers threatened to take her little son away from her, she told The Daily Beast.
When, a year ago, officials raided the house of Khodorkovsky’s spokeswoman, Kulle Pispanen, they brought a saw with them. “At first I did not want to open the door until our lawyer arrived, but then I heard the sounds of them sawing my door and let them in before they terrified my 7-year-old daughter,” Pispanen told The Daily Beast on Tuesday. Officials searched Pispanen’s apartment for about 12 hours, seized computers, phones and even old discs with Pispanen’s Radio Free Europe shows. “We are all aware that we take risks working for Open Russia but that is the choice we make,” Pispanen told The Daily Beast.All day Tuesday, Svetova’s friends and readers discussed the raid on social networks. A crowd of journalists and friends, including some prominent cultural figures, waited outside of her door, sitting on the staircase. Once, Svetova popped out of the door to thank everybody who came to support her and her family.Her voice was soft but strong, and unbroken, as always.
";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:30";1486
12;"Most of the cast members that made up the titular street gang in the 1979 cult classic The Warriors reunited on the Q Train on September 13th to take one last ride together to Coney Island, where hundreds waited at a fan-organized event celebrating the Walter Hill-directed film. ""These subways are different than they were in 1978,"" actor Michael Beck, who played the head-Warrior-in-charge Swan in the film, told Rolling Stone on the voyage to the Boardwalk.David Harris (Cochise), Dorsey Wright (Cleon), Terry Michos (Vermin) and Thomas G. Waites (Fox) were also on hand for the celebration, with the original cast greeted at Coney Island by scores of film fans and similarly vested ""gangs"" who were drawn together by the movie. ""Basically, this is a social club for Coney Island,"" one attendee said. ""We started it for the youth though, because of all the gang violence that was happening in our town and what not. We tried to get all the youth to join us instead of joining real gangs.""Motorcycle clubs have also found inspiration in the movie that stresses brotherhood over any odds; remarkably, even the Warriors actors themselves have remained close 37 years later.In addition to appearances by the cast (who had come out to pla-yyyy-ayy), the event featured small children dressed up like Baseball Furies, dozens of biceps inked with Warriors tattoos, a guy who touted himself as ""the Pope of Greenwich Village, the Pride of the West Side"" and attendees from as far away as Scotland.""I just love being here with all the fans. I see kids coming here, eight years old, and I go 'How do you even know about this movie,'"" Beck told Rolling Stone. ""I found out something today. One of the stunt guys who played one of the Furies, he came up to me and told me, 'Thirty-seven years ago, you broke three of my ribs with a baseball bat.' I told him I was sorry. I didn't mean to."" Michos added, ""It's a phenomenon I didn't expect, but I'm very happy.""";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:34";1487
13;"MOSCOW—Over the past 25 years, local Russian businessmen have learned that they all need one thing to survive: a krysha, or “roof,” or, in the ever-applicable mafia parlance, protection.Three years ago, on March 6, 2014, the U.S. Treasury Department authorized sanctions against a host of Russian institutions and officials for violating the territorial integrity of Ukraine. The most influential companies—Gazprom, Alfa Bank, Novatek, all of them loyal to or controlled by the Kremlin—rushed to hire well-connected lobbyists in Washington to try to get them off a financially crippling blacklist. That is, to get them the protection they needed.There was no shortage of money offered, since nobody could predict at the time how bad the tensions of a renascent Cold War would grow. The question was which doors the hired American strategists could unlock for Moscow.With his decades of experience, Republican party bona fides, and a global team at McLarty Associates, Richard Burt seemed an ideal lobbying partner for Russian big business.The 70-year-old Burt has been close to several generations of Republicans, including Ronald Reagan, for whom he served as U.S. ambassador to Germany, and, much more recently, to President Donald Trump.A frequent visitor to Moscow, Burt has spent most of his professional diplomatic and lobbying life dealing in one way or another with the Kremlin.In one dramatic photograph shown around the world, he escorted the famed Soviet refusenik Natan Sharansky across the Glienicke Bridge in Berlin in 1986 as part of a U.S.-Soviet spy exchange. (The Jewish dissident was the one non-spy; he was, however, the first political prisoner released under Mikhail Gorbachev’s reformist government.)“He was the star brilliant American diplomat under Reagan, with Richard Perle,” a former CIA operative in Moscow told The Daily Beast. “I think he’s an opportunist, a businessman. I would never think of him having serious views about anything.“In a way, he’s like [Vitaly] Churkin,” the ex-spy added, referring to the recently deceased Russian ambassador to the U.S. “A charismatic guy who sold out to the system. And they’re both rough contemporaries.”Last year, two major Russian corporations used Burt’s lobbying services, the Russian gas giant Gazprom, one of five constituent companies party to the Nord Stream II pipeline project, which was designed to deliver an additional 55 billion cubic meters of gas to Germany.According to the Heinrich Boll Foundation, run by the German Green Party, “using Nord Stream II to expand capacity would further increase dependency on Gazprom, with the Russian state-owned corporation already taking more and more control of the entire gas supply chain in the EU as it is.” Thus, it would undercut a major European Union geopolitical objective—more energy independence—which became especially important following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.“According to open sources, Gazprom’s New European Pipeline AG paid Burt’s company $690,000 for their 2016-2017 contract, that just ran out this month,” Sergei Kostiayev, a Russian political scientist researching international lobbyists, told The Daily Beast. Documents recoverable from the website for the Lobbying Disclosures Act Database, administered by the U.S. Senate, bear this out.Kostiayev, a docent at the Financial University, which is run by the Russian government, says that working for Gazprom is no different from working directly for the Kremlin. “But just lobbying efforts are as useless as attempts to decorate a corpse. By now the Kremlin realized that that they needed ‘their man’ in Washington, who could provide Trump’s support for Moscow,” the academic added.To hear Burt tell it, however, neither he nor McLarty Associates are lobbyists at all, as “98 percent of the firm’s clients are U.S. companies seeking help in international markets, the only foreign clients the company represents are through a subsidiary known as McLarty Inbound.” Also, he insists, there is no connection to Russia’s gas behemoth.“We represented Nord Stream II—not Gazprom itself —when it was a consortium including 5 companies,” Burt wrote The Daily Beast in an emailed statement. “One of them was Gazprom. In October, when the Western companies including Royal Dutch Shell, etc. dropped out having to do with the fact that Poland wouldn’t do business with them, we stopped invoicing the client and let our contract lapse at the end of October 2016. The reason we pulled out was that McLarty Associates have a policy of not representing foreign governments or state-owned enterprises.”One of these foreign clients is a Russian-owned investment vehicle Letter One. Letter One or L1, a Luxembourg-registered and London-based company, was founded by Mikhail Fridman, the owner of Russia’s largest private bank, Alfa, which was alleged to have had digital communication with servers in Trump Tower during last year’s presidential election. Burt, an adviser to the board of L1, told The Daily Beast that the U.K.-domiciled Fridman, along with Pyotr Aven, the head of Alfa Bank, are “longtime business associates.”Just before McLarty apparently stopped invoicing the New European Pipeline AG, Burt had what he describes as a “very peripheral” role in crafting parts of then-presidential candidate Donald Trump’s first major foreign policy speech, delivered at Washington, D.C.’s Center for the National Interest in April 2016. At that event, the now heavily scrutinized Russian ambassador to the U.S., Sergei Kislyak, was seated in the front row. “I believe an easing of tensions and improved relations with Russia—from a position of strength—is possible,” Trump said on that occasion. “Common sense says this cycle of hostility must end. Some say the Russians won’t be reasonable. I intend to find out.”Burt told The Daily Beast that he never met Trump or interacted with anyone from the campaign for the purpose of offering his input on the speech. Rather, a third party intermediary transmitted his counsel. And as to the bits of the address pertaining to Russia, “The only… thing I remember was something along the lines of needing to deal with Russia from a position of strength.”In an interview last June, Burt told Reuters: “I am happy to talk to people looking for advice on foreign policy issues.”According to Politico, which Burt said mischaracterized his role in the composition of Trump’s speech, he attended two separate dinners hosted by then-senator Jeff Sessions, who served as the chairman of Trump’s national security committee during the campaign. Now the president’s embattled attorney general, Sessions last week was forced to recuse himself from any forthcoming investigation into Trump’s ties to Moscow owing to his allegedly misleading testimony during his confirmation hearing, at which he said he hadn’t talked to any Russian officials about the campaign. As The Washington Post disclosed, Sessions met and spoke to Kislyak twice during his work on the campaign. Burt, Politico noted, was “invited to discuss issues of national security and foreign policy, and wrote white papers for Sessions on the same subjects.”Burt has also continued to spend time in Russia. “Last year Burt visited Moscow twice to participate in round table discussions about nuclear weapons,” Konstantin Remchukov, editor in chief of the independent Russian newspaper Nezavismaya Gazeta, told The Daily Beast. “Burt’s main message was that both Russia and the United States need an injection of pragmatism, that sanctions against Russia were harmful for both Russia and the West. His words sounded marvelous to many ears in Moscow.”Burt’s long diplomatic service combine with a personal style that everyone interviewed for this article could not help but find impressive. He is seen as a savvy and affable elder statesmen among his peers. One U.S. think tank specialist on Russia who has interacted with him abroad told The Daily Beast, “He’s tall, well-dressed, and a sharp political player.”Which is to say, markedly at odds with the sort of American interlocutors the Kremlin used to prefer dealing with.Once the biggest foreign investor in Russia, Bill Browder, the CEO of the now London-based Hermitage Capital, admitted in an interview with The Daily Beast that Burt’s services for a Gazprom-affiliated company marked a significant difference from Moscow’s jejune style in the beginning of the Putin era.“In the early years, the Kremlin’s lobbying and legal work was as unsophisticated as their representatives in gold chains, shiny suits and pointy shoes, but they have learned how to dress and how to hire the best lobbyists,” Browder said, who often refers to the Kremlin, as “gangsters who killed my lawyer.”“Although their transactions are just as criminal and difficult to mask, they are much better at fighting legal battles with big hired guns in the West.”Browder added that he was not surprised that Burt shared his time between writing speech memos for Trump and promoting a pipeline deal that would boost Gazprom’s energy hold on Europe. “There must be lots of companies in Washington who would love to sign a million-dollar contract with Gazprom.”Russian media, too, seem keen on continuing to see Burt as a channel between East and West. In recent weeks, his name has been floated frequently in various news reports, along with John Huntsman and others, as a possible U.S. ambassador to Moscow.When asked by The Daily Beast if that’s a position he’d accept should it be offered to him, Burt responded: “In Washington, you never answer a question like that.”—Anna Nemtsova reported this story from Moscow, Michael Weiss reported from New York City";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:36";1488
14;"MOSCOW—The Investigations Management Center (IMC), housed under a mansard roof on Pokrovka Avenue in the heart of old Moscow, was full of light and buzz one night last week. A senior investigative reporter, Andrei Konyakhin, and his team were about to post one more report unveiling the luxurious lifestyle of top bureaucrats under President Vladimir Putin.At 7 p.m., when millions of Russians sat down around their dining tables, the Center uploaded one more of its investigations, this time about the royal lifestyle of presidential aide Vladislav Surkov, known as Russia’s “gray cardinal,” its eminence grise, and “the author of Putinism.”One cannot stay in the gray background for very long, however, when one’s wife likes to pose for pictures and post shots of herself on social networks.The report said that Surkov and his wife, an attractive blonde named Natalya Dubovitskaya, have not one but two spacious houses in an elite, gated community 12 kilometers outside Moscow.On Monday Konyakhin told The Daily Beast that to conduct that journalistic investigation, the reporters studied photographs on Facebook posted by Natalya’s friends and regular guests at the houses, and also checked public data about Surkov’s official income.“The family’s official annual income of about 17 million rubles (around $300,000) would not be enough to live in such high style,” said Konyakhin.One of the images published by the investigative reporters featured Dubovitskaya and her lady friends—glamorous wives of Russian celebrities and billionaires—dressed in the baroque style of the Marie Antoinette era. They could have been at Versailles suggesting the peasants eat cake.Some of the same ladies are also wearing camouflage and riding on top of a military truck; or aboard a private jet flying to Dubai.  Next stop Mar-a-Lago? Certainly the taste is Trumpian, even if the money is Putinian.The report also mentioned Russia Today (RT) editor in chief, Margarita Simonyan, as one of the regular guests at Surkov’s house.IMC, founded only a few months ago and funded by Mikhail Khodorkovsky, the former oil magnate jailed for almost a decade and forced into exile by Russian President Vladimir Putin, uses public sources to document corruption and the abuse of power.In January, IMC investigative reporter Sergei Kanev was the first to report about the secret life and lucrative business of Maria Vorontsova, one of President Putin’s two daughters, in downtown Moscow for The New Times, an independent Russian magazine.“Russians are sick of seeing how corrupt the top state officials are—they even dress up like French royalty.“There is a high public demand to see more unveiled secrets about men in power,” said Konyakhin, a former journalist with the Russian edition of Forbes.Almost every week, the country hears about a new high-profile leak or about some scandal involving President Putin’s close friends. Journalistic investigations expose more yachts, palaces, vast private tracts of land, and private jets enjoyed by top Russian officials.As the countdown begins to the presidential elections a year from now, Russia seems to be turning into a giant sieve with information pouring through the system’s holes.In less than a week, almost a million internet users viewed the report about Surkov on Facebook, the Russian social network Odnoklassniki, YouTube, and the Echo of Moscow website.Earlier this month, the Anti-Corruption Fund, a website managed by the key opposition leader Alexei Navalny, accused the former Russian president and current prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, of major corruption.Navalny’s Anti-Corruption Fund reported that Medvedev owned an $85 million mansion outside of Moscow. By Monday, almost 9 million people viewed Navalny’s investigation on YouTube.Last July, Novaya Gazeta, a newspaper famous for its investigations, told Russians about the connection between one of President Putin’s closest men, the former deputy prime minister and current head of oil giant Rosneft, Igor Sechin, and a beautiful yacht called St. Princess Olga. Sechin, who formerly worked closely with Trump’s secretary of State, former Exxon CEO Rex Tillerson, has for several years avoided any public declaration of his income.But Sechin’s wife, Olga Sechina, helped the journalistic investigation by posting on social networks pictures of her good times on the yacht in Italy and in Spain. Novaya Gazeta and the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project included Sechina’s images and the geo-locations in their joint report.Novaya insisted that Sechin, one of the Russian officials close to Putin whom journalists called “untouchable,” spent more money than he made at Rosneft. He took Novaya Gazeta to court and won the lawsuit, obliging the newspaper to deny the allegations of corruption, but not the details of the yacht voyage.More than 800,000 people read Novaya Gazeta’s investigation into Igor Sechin’s property, an impressively large online audience for a newspaper with circulation of only 184,400.But will any of this have a real impact? Here, too, the situation is reminiscent of what’s going on in America.“The genre of investigations is growing very popular,” says Pavel Kanygin, a Novaya Gazeta journalist. “Reporters unveil the corruption of Putin’s closest men—Surkov, Sechin, Medvev. But society does not seem to be analyzing the corruption of the president yet. He is seen as a father figure, a creator, so the investigations about Putin’s daughters or Putin’s palaces just sink under the admiration that surrounds the leader, the creator, who people prefer to keep in the fog of mystery.”";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:37";1489
15;"KIEV — Yevgenia Zakrevskaya, an attorney here in the Ukrainian capital, is one of the strongest liberal voices in the country, fighting hard for democratic values and the rule of law. Persistent, punctilious, and stubborn, the 36-year-old Zakrevskaya has pieced together a mosaic of evidence proving that the entire Ukraine state system from top to bottom was responsible for the tragic events in February 2014 when more than 100 protesters were killed in the streets of Kiev.Representing 20 victims and their family members, Zakrevskaya wants to  send a strong message to Moscow and Washington, as well as to all  Ukrainian officials: everyone complicit in ordering the mass murder of  unarmed protesters in Maidan Square must be prosecuted and punished,  even if it takes years—and even if the list of suspects comes to include  people like former Donald Trump campaign chief Paul Manafort or,  indeed, people protected by Russian President Vladimir Putin.Right now, Ukraine is watching the historic public trial of five former Kiev policemen. The men in the dock are members of “the Black Unit,” Kiev’s feared Berkut police, suspected of murdering 48 people and injuring up to 80 participants in the Maidan revolution on Feb. 20, 2014.For three years Zakrevskaya  has been collecting photo and video evidence, as well as physical evidence such as bullets and shells from around the square to prove not only that this police unit fired at the protesters but that they did so under orders.The bullets Zakrevskaya, her colleagues and clients have discovered are not made of plastic; the video footage depicted men in uniforms shooting guns at protesters in Kiev.“This trial could be compared to the Bloody Sunday trial in Ireland or to the court hearing against the murderers of protesters in Lithuania in 1991,” Zakrevskaya tells The Daily Beast.Many in Ukraine believe that former President Yanukovych was responsible for ordering the mass murder of Maidan revolutionaries and that the entire system of power has to be cleansed and reformed.Others say that it is enough to see a few policemen on trial, that the law enforcement agencies should not go after all officials on all levels, even if some involved in suppressing the revolutionary movement might be still working in Ukraine’s state institutions.Zakrevskaya insists that all witnesses deserve attention. It’s in that context that the name of Paul Manafort comes up, since the American political operator was an advisor both for Yanukovych and eventually U.S. presidential candidate Donald Trump, Zakrevskaya told The Daily Beast.Beginning in 2005, Manafort was advising Yanukovych and his Russia-backed Party of Regions as well as the party’s biggest sponsor, Ukrainian oligarch Renat Akhmetov.Even after the violent events of February 2014 and Yanukovych’s shameful escape to Russia, Manafort returned to Ukraine to reshape the former ruling Party of Regions into the Oppo Bloc.Manafort’s tenure as Trump’s campaign chief ended after reports last summer that he received millions of dollars in cash payments, allegedly stolen from Ukrainian tax payers.It’s been reported as well that Manafort’s daughters felt concerned about their father’s interactions with former President Yanukovych.What appear to be hacked text messages among Manafort’s daughters include this sinister judgment by Andrea Manafort: “Don’t fool yourself. That money we have is blood money.”Manafort has not yet responded to queries from The Daily Beast about the allegations in Ukraine or his daugthers’ alleged text messages.The key question for Ukraine is whether Manafort was advising Yanukovych during the days of violence in late February 2014, at precisely the time when the Berkut police fired machine guns at unarmed people on Kiev’s Independence Square.  Zakrevskaya said she'd welcome any efforts by  Manafort's daughters and the U.S. law enforcement that might help Ukraine find out the truth. ""This trial could be a lesson for the entire world,"" she said.Yanukovych is exiled in Russia, but in November, Zakrevskaya had a chance to him about the killings, via videoconference. “The former president said that it was not police but some ‘radicals’ who had shot people dead in Kiev, ” Zakrevskaya said.One of Zakrevskaya’s clients, Vladimir Bondarchuk, is looking for justice in the case of his father, Sergei Bondarchuk, a schoolteacher from Starokonstantinovka who was shot dead on Maidan Square. In the dramatic video Vladimir presented to the court as evidence, his father can be seen carrying a wounded protester, seconds before he was fatally wounded himself.  “We found a video of a police officer in a black uniform with a yellow ribbon around his arm firing an AK-47 assault rifle in the direction of my father,” Bondarchuk told The Daily Beast. “One of the bullets hit my father’s body when he and his friends were carrying another fatally injured protester towards a shelter without paying attention to the rain of bullets fired at them,” Bondarchuk said. His voice cracked as he spoke, even now, three years after the violence.Both Zakrevskaya and her client struggle say they are at a loss to understand how officials sworn to protect the nation could shoot guns at people carrying a wounded man.Most of the Berkut policemen who were fighting Maidan’s revolutionaries managed to escape to Russia in February,2014. The officers on trial today are accused, specifically, of killing 48 participants in the uprising on Institustaya Street. They say they are innocent and insist that if they fired it was in response to revolutionaries attacking them.Zakrevskaya does not believe that they are telling the truth: “In the videos we have studied it is evident that the riot policemen fired at the protesters from a position behind a concrete barricade, which means the unit was under a full control,” Zakrevskaya said. “This awful crime is now being considered by the International Criminal Court.”Ukrainian legal expert Mikhail Zhernakov believes that the trial against former policemen is hugely important for Ukraine today.“All Mr. Yanukovych’s allies, supporters of the former regime should be questioned on this case, as potentially responsible in mass killings during Maidan protests; including, if the facts get proved, Mr. Manafort,” Mikhail Zhernakov told The Daily Beast. “By recognizing the killings as the crime against humanity, and that is how many in Ukraine see the shootings, the International Criminal Court would help the progress of this historical process for our country.”Given Manafort’s important connection to President Trump, discovering the truth about Manafort’s role in February 2014 could have historical significance for the United States as well. 
";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:38";1490
16;"MOSCOW — Ukraine has been shaken by a new Russia-related assassination. A former member of the Russian parliament, Denis Voronenkov, was shot dead in the heart of Kiev, on the corner of Shevchenko and Pushkin streets.Voronenkov, a colonel in the Russian military, escaped to Ukraine together with his wife, Maria Maksakova, who is also a former State Duma member. A few weeks ago, Voronenkov told The Daily Beast about his plans to testify at the trial for treason, in absentia, of former Ukraine President Victor Yanukovych, who fled to exile in 2014.[Editorial Note: Many of the allegations surrounding U.S. President Donald Trump’s campaign relations with Russia center on Paul Manafort, who served as Trump campaign chairman after he worked for Yanukovych.]Voronenkov, a Russian army colonel, told The Daily Beast in our interview that he felt himself much happier in Ukraine than in Moscow, where federal special services agents were trying to prosecute him for corruption.When asked whether he was worried about his safety in Ukraine, Voronenkov responded with a smile that any attempt to deport or harm him and his wife “would spoil Ukraine’s international reputation.”Voronenkov spent his days giving interviews to local and foreign publications, criticizing the Kremlin’s policy and Russian President Vladimir Putin. Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko called Voronenkov’s murder “an act of state terrorism ordered by Russia.” Poroshenko also cited what he called the obvious “handwriting of Russian special services” behind the murder.Witnesses heard at least seven shots Thursday outside the Premiere Palace Hotel. Voronenkov’s assassin was reportedly wounded and hospitalized.The Ukrainian news agency UNIAN reported that the assassin shot Voronenkov when the Russian whistleblower was heading to a meeting with another exiled ex-member of the State Duma, Sergei Ponamarev, the only Russian parliament member who did not vote for the Crimea annexation in 2014.For weeks, Russian state news had condemned Voronenkov for betraying his country. Most people who knew the colonel, including family members, blamed the ex-official for switching sides and running to Ukraine.Shortly after news of the murder reached Moscow, Voronenkov’s mother-in-law, a famous Russian stage and movie actress, reportedly commented the assassination:  “Oh, thank God. What else to do with him?""In the past three years of Ukraine’s conflict with Russia, news about assassinations in Ukraine has not been rare. Among the mysterious murders were the assassination of noted journalist Pavel Sheremet—blown up in his car near Kiev’s opera house—and the murder of a well-respected attorney, Yury Grabovsky. But this time Ukrainian investigators may have a much better idea who the murderer was: at 3 p.m. local time, the wounded assassin of Voronenkov was at Kiev’s hospital #17.Officially, Moscow immediately insisted that it had nothing to do with the murder. President Vladimir Putin’s ruling party United Russia declared that Voronenkov’s assassination was an internal issue for Ukraine.";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:39";1491
17;"MOSCOW — Russian interference in the American elections last year was downright subtle compared to what we’ve seen this week in the run-up to French presidential elections.The two-round vote on April 23 and May 7 could change politics, defense, and the economy in Europe more radically—and more in Russia’s favor—even than the chaos spawned by Donald Trump’s iffy triumph in the United States.And on Friday, Putin endorsed his candidate: far-right-wing, anti-European-Union, anti-NATO, anti-immigrant, anti-American, pro-Trump candidate Marine Le Pen.Of course, Putin said, “We don't want to influence in any way the events going on [in France],” but his government received Le Pen as if she already were settled in as the head of state in Paris.Olga Bychkova, deputy chief editor of the independent radio station Echo of Moscow, said that the reception accorded Le Pen in Russia was impressive. ""She first had meetings with the leaders of the Duma [Russia’s parliament], then she was taken to an exhibit devoted to France at the Kremlin, then she met with Putin. That is a kind of program Moscow organizes for state leaders,"" Bychkova said.The French news magazine L’Express was quick to note the anomaly as well, calling it “altogether exceptional” that Putin would receive a presidential candidate so close to an election.In 2014, when Le Pen’s National Front Party could not secure any loans from French banks, she turned to Russia and received millions of dollars from a now defunct institution there. Putin, at the same time, received endorsement from her party for his takeover of Crimea. She has consistently blamed Washington for starting the new “cold war.” So it was widely assumed that Le Pen was in Moscow Friday as a loyal ally looking for more funding.We may not learn the outcome of that financial venture for some time. (The original loan and quid pro quo for Crimea was revealed by hackers.)“Whether she hoped to receive money for her campaign or not, it does not matter, she came to Russia for Putin’s support and she has already received it,” says Bychkova.The Putin meeting was much more impressive than a loan, in fact. It was the president of Russia placing his bet, if not indeed staking his claim, on the presidency of a country that is a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, that was a founding member of the European Union, and after decades of estrangement from NATO has become, over the last 10 years, a key member of that alliance once again.A Le Pen victory would be an orgasmic triumph for Putin, and he seems to think his explicit/implicit endorsement will do her good.Certainly much of the French political class would seem to give him encouragement in that regard.At the first major debate on Monday among five leading contenders for the French presidency, three of them found ways to parrot Moscow’s line on critical issues.Le Pen spoke skeptically of NATO and of a united European defense system, which comes up a lot since the Trump administration has made itself appear so very unfriendly to the traditional North Atlantic Alliance that Russia hates and fears.Le Pen said she was defending the “freedom of the French” and wouldn’t want “to force our soldiers to go to wars we haven’t decided on.” Ergo, adieu NATO’s core mutual defense clause.Far-left candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon, grizzled and tenacious as a badger, was the crowd favorite in the debate even though he’s far behind in the polls. “The world has become again very dangerous,” he said. “I want to be the president of peace. There should be a security conference from the Atlantic to the Urals. It’s the moment to negotiate the borders.”Nothing could be more musical to Putin’s ears as he’s trying to do that already by using various forms of hybrid warfare on every one of his European frontiers, terrifying even his longtime ally in Belarus, Alexander Lukashenko.But Mélenchon has no prayer, it would seem, of making it past the first round in the voting on April 23.The erstwhile favorite to reach the runoff against Le Pen on May 7 was François Fillon, prime minister for five years under former President Nicolas Sarkozy.He, too, was singing Putin’s song in Monday’s debate, picking up on Mélenchon’s proposal and talking about “a fundamental principle, which is the right of people to determine their own futures.” In context, that would mean the people of Crimea and eastern Ukraine, whose futures are being sucked back into a new Russian empire and who have very little say about it.It’s not like borders have never been re-drawn in Europe, said Fillon, citing the example of Kosovo, which in fact was freed from the savage Russian-backed government of a genocidal Serbian president in 1999. To address problems in the Middle East, Fillon said, France should work with Russia and Iran. No mention of the U.S.But Putin wouldn’t bet on Fillon at this point no matter how much their minds meld, because a series of scandals have turned Fillon, once the front-runner, into the third-runner.Le Canard Enchainé, a satirical and investigative weekly broadsheet that doesn’t publish on the web, revealed a few weeks ago that Fillon—who claims he believes in Thatcherite smaller government, lower taxes, fewer state employees, and fewer protections for private sector employers, and who has called for the eventual elimination of 500,000 public sector jobs—put his wife and two children on the public payroll for jobs they allegedly did not do or were not qualified to do at all. And his family then took home roughly $1 million in public funds.On Wednesday, after the debates, Le Canard Enchainé reported that Fillon’s consulting firm also was paid $50,000 and promised a percentage of the revenues by a Lebanese pipeline builder for, among other things, arranging a meeting with Vladimir Putin on the sidelines of a conference in St. Petersburg in 2015.So, cozy as Fillon and Putin may be, and ideologically copacetic as the Russian president and the far-left badger Mélenchon may be, the Kremlin’s bold handicapper decided to go with Le Pen on Friday. She will be by far the most destructive for NATO and the EU. She has looked like a pretty solid front runner in the first round of the French elections. The question at this point is whether she can sustain momentum into round two—and against whom.For the moment, that person appears likely to be Emmanuel Macron, a boyish looking 39-year-old former Rothschild banker and economy minister who bailed out of the wildly unpopular Socialist government of President François Hollande last year to found a centrist movement called En Marche! that has been drawing support from both the left and the right.Macron, in the debates last Monday and at every opportunity, has been absolutely firm in his support for the European Union and NATO, and wary of the disruptive, destructive sort of “deconstruction” that U.S. President Donald Trump and his ideologues favor in Europe.When Le Pen, who tried laughing at Macron to put him down in the debate, said he’d spoken seven minutes while saying nothing, his riposte was short and sharp.“Unlike you,” Macron told Le Pen, “I don’t want to make a pact with Putin. I want the Europeans.”The latest IFOP-Fiducial tracking poll on Thursday gave Macron a 1 percent edge on Le Pen in the first round, and a 61.5 to 38.5 margin in the second round among those who intend to vote. But given what we saw with Trump and Brexit last year, there’s no reason for complacency. Many voters are still undecided, many may just stay home. And in the 30+ percent range, the odds are similar to playing Russian roulette with two bullets in your six-shooter.Can Putin pull the trigger? Already, the Macron campaign has complained of massive hacking attacks.FBI Director James Comey marveled in his testimony before Congress earlier this week that “the Russians were unusually loud” in their quasi-covert interference with America’s elections, and “it was almost as if they didn’t care if we knew.”That was nothing to what we’re seeing now with the French elections.People may joke darkly about Trump as the Putinian candidate. But about Le Pen there is now no doubt at all.—Anna Nemtsova reported from Moscow and Christopher Dickey reported from Paris. Erin Zaleski also contributed reporting to this story.";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:44";1492
18;"“If we think you’re praying, you’ll be arrested,” the Israeli cop said impatiently as we walked up the Mughrabi Bridge, almost like a flight attendant reminding a delinquent passenger to turn off her iPhone.One person in our Orthodox Jewish tour group was intent on being that passenger, the annoying one who gets kicked off the plane. As soon as we ascended the Temple Mount—to us, Judaism’s holiest site—he began moving his lips without speaking audible words, à la Hannah in the Book of Samuel. In other words, he was praying. Like Eli, the High Priest, our police supervisors were irate: a burly officer promptly whisked him off for detention. Suddenly scared of ending up in Israeli jail, none of us uttered a single word the rest of the trip.Being on the Temple Mount in 2005, the whole atmosphere felt extremely tense, as if chaos could erupt at any moment. Maybe it was the ubiquitous presence of Israeli police, or it could have been the suspicious glances we received from the site’s Muslim patrons. Walking around, past instances of violence seemed very real: the 1990 riots that resulted in the death of 20 Palestinians, the 2000 riots triggered by Ariel Sharon’s visit that later turned into the Second Intifada, and the many smaller skirmishes that take place on a monthly basis. No fights broke out during my visit, but it felt as though one could have.The Temple Mount has earned that resumé of instability through an entangled religious history. Known to Muslims as Haram al Sharif, it is host to twin mosques—Al Aqsa and the Dome of the Rock—and the former location of the First and Second Jewish Temples. When Israel captured the Temple Mount/Haram al Sharif in 1967, it reached a compromise with Jordan, under which Israeli police would provide for the site’s security and the Wakf, an Islamic trust, would oversee the site’s religious functions. As the aforementioned incidents show, this arrangement has been far from peaceful.I bring up my story from 2005 because the Temple Mount/Haram al Sharif and the issue of prayer is, once again, in the news.On Wednesday, a group of Jewish teenagers was arrested on the Temple Mount because they looked as though they were praying. The youth reportedly prostrated themselves, in violation of the same restriction I was warned of seven years ago. 
These arrests are a common occurrence. A Reuters report released yesterday says that, “This month alone, Israeli police have hauled away half a dozen Israelis from the site.” During the holiday of Sukkot, 10 Jews were arrested for attempting to pray. Even Knesset members—notwithstanding their legal immunity—have been arrested on the Temple Mount.Behind these arrests is a growing movement for Temple Mount prayer. Fifteen thousand religious Jews visited the Temple Mount in 2012, up from 9,000 in 2011. Ninety percent of religious Jews in Israel think they should have the right to pray on the Temple Mount, and a majority of the Israeli public agrees with them. Even the U.S. State Department has weighed in on the matter, mentioning Temple Mount restrictions as a blemish on Israel’s otherwise sterling record of protecting religious freedom. On its surface, the struggle for Temple Mount prayer has all the trappings of a liberal and democratic movement for religious equality. Temple Mount activists have drawn favorable comparisons between themselves and the Women of the Wall.Some Knesset members have responded to this pressure by arguing for changes to the Temple Mount law. Their efforts clash with strong institutional backing: Israel has fiercely defended its restriction as necessary to security, fending off judicial and legislative challenges. Its security establishment is deeply worried that extremists, motivated by Messianic theology, might attack the mosques on Haram al Sharif to pave the way for the Third Temple. Even though extremists’ plots are unlikely to succeed, police worry that their attempts might be sufficient to provoke Muslim unrest and trigger widespread violence.Palestinian Muslims, for their part, are extremely wary of any deviation from the status quo. Palestinian Authority officials, including Mahmoud Abbas, watch the growing Temple Mount movement with increasing concern—they believe extremists are actively trying to destroy Al Aqsa Mosque and build the Third Temple, not just seeking the right to pray in the enclosure.Are their fears overblown? Can we trust the Temple Mount movement?Having been a national-religious Jew once—obviously I only speak for myself—I would have loved nothing more than to see the Third Temple built. This is why I take seriously the threats of people like Moshe Feiglin; I know that they mean what they say. I’ve visited the Temple Mount Institute and have witnessed their plans in action: they’ve designed the Menorah, the showbread table, and the priestly garments, all to actually use in a Third Temple. In 1984, terrorists affiliated with this ideology came close to blowing up the Dome of the Rock.But, as a religious Jew, I would also have seen prayer on the Temple Mount as a generous consolation prize in lieu of the actual Temple. This is why I think it’s unfair to impute the apocalyptic designs of Moshe Feiglin onto the rest of the Temple Mount movement. I understand when religious Jews say they only want to feel a historical “connection,” through prayer, to the site that was once the fulcrum of Judaism. I also believe, like an Israeli judge made clear on Sunday, that it is manifestly unjust for a liberal democratic country to limit the religious freedom of a particular group, even if there is reason to suspect that group has provocative intentions. Indeed, it violates the Basic Law on which Israel was founded—and is underpinned by the same logic that was used to justify discrimination against Israeli Palestinian Arabs.Israel must do what it can to undermine the subversive activities of Moshe Feiglin and his ilk—and it already is. But in so doing, it should not discriminate against all Jews.Ironically, the best solution is one that the most extreme Temple Mount activists would likely despise: for Israel to transfer sovereignty of the Temple Mount/Haram al Sharif to an international body that could objectively govern the site and ensure religious access to all faiths. International control might not completely eliminate the possibility of violence, but it would ameliorate the perception of bias that fuels outrage on both sides. If the Temple Mount movement were to accept it, it would go a long way toward verifying their intentions as benign. It would reassure us that extremists are not at its helm.";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:44";1493
19;"Despite the obvious wishes of the impressively vocal and fervent Rush fans who packed the 28th Rock and Roll Hall of Fame induction ceremony in Los Angeles' Nokia Theatre last night, the show was not entirely about the long-delayed induction of Toronto trio – and for all of Public Enemy sidekick Flavor Flav's constant, oft-amusing attempts at attention-hogging, it definitely wasn't all about him either.But even by the once-in-a-lifetime standards of these annual ceremonies, it was an endlessly entertaining, surreally star-packed (Oprah!) night of many wonders and curiosities: Jackson Browne, Tom Petty and  John Fogerty formed a very temporary band with inductee Randy Newman; a strutting Jennifer Hudson channeled Donna Summer; Harry Belafonte solemnly intoned the lyrics of Public Enemy's ""Don't Believe the Hype""; Dave Grohl and Taylor Hawkins covered Rush while wearing the band's infamous Seventies kimonos; and Rush themselves led a joyous, all-time great closing jam that saw Chuck D and guest DMC rhyming over the beats of Neil Peart. (The show will air May 18th on HBO.)Geddy Lee on Rush's Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Induction: 'We'll Show Up Smiling'After an introduction by Hall of Fame Chairman Jann Wenner – whose mere mention of the words ""from Toronto"" won a two-minute-long standing ovation for Rush – the evening began with California guys Browne, Petty, Fogerty and Newman (yes, Petty is originally from Florida) playing a punchy, guitar-dominated version of  the inductee's ""I Love L.A.,"" helping to commemorate the ceremony's return to Los Angeles for the first time since 1993. Their shouts of ""we love it"" made the song sound less ironic than ever, and as they passed verses back and forth and harmonized on the song's ""Twist and Shout""-style ""ahs,"" it started to seem like they were a Wilburys-style supergroup in the making. Don Henley inducted Newman, lamenting the long delay in his inclusion in the hall of fame, and citing a Newman performance he just saw in Texas: ""When you can get 2,000 people to applaud a song like 'Rednecks' in a state that's elected Rick Perry three times, you are a hell of an artist!""""It's hard for me to express a genuine emotion,"" Newman said, ""as you can tell from my writing. But I'm very happy to receive this award. And I hope the fact that I rushed my own song a little earlier doesn't mean I get kicked out on my first night in.""Cheech and Chong, in full stand-up mode, inducted the producer and promoter Lou Adler, positively killing with a bit that included mimed snorting of a certain substance off his desk. After bringing tears to the eyes of audience member Michelle Phillips of the Mamas and the Papas as he described her band's audition for him, Adler got his own laughs, recalling being asked: ""How does it feel after all the hits . . . to be known as the guy with the beard who sits next to Jack Nicholson at Lakers games?""John Mayer gave an impressively musical induction speech for blues guitarist Albert King, tracing his influence on Stevie Ray Vaughan and demonstrating on one of King's trademark Flying Vs the aggressive style he brought to the genre: ""Albert is the reason guitarists break high 'E' strings."" Then he and Gary Clark Jr. played two King classics, trading off the master's licks on ""Born Under a Bad Sign."" An ebullient Kelly Rowland – who was hit on by Flavor Flav from the crowd – inducted Donna Summer:. ""I'm pretty sure me and a lot of people here were made to that record,"" she said of ""Love to Love You Baby.""  Jennifer Hudson, in a glittery gray dress, then elicited the most movement ever out of a hall of fame crowd with ""Bad Girls"" and ""Last Dance"" – even Tom Morello could be seen boogying up front, and onetime disco foe Geddy Lee clapped along.The biggest rock star at the ceremony was arguably Oprah Winfrey, judging by the outsize roar that greeted her surprise appearance to induct Quincy Jones, who cast her in The Color Purple. She praised his ability to support talent:  ""When you work with Quincy Jones, you feel loved and are loved,"" she said. ""I want to be like you when I grow up, I really do."" Jones gave a long, heartfelt speech full of praise for the jazz greats he collaborated with, including Dizzy Gillespie and Miles Davis. ""The first rock &amp; roll bands for me were Louis Jordan and Lionel Hampton,"" he said.Introduced by Spike Lee, Belafonte showed up to a standing ovation and praised Public Enemy for their fearlessness and radicalism. They took the stage, complete with their S1W security guys, and Flavor Flav filibustered endlessly, despite Chuck D tapping the clock he wears on his chest. Chuck's speech was much shorter and far more essential: ""There's some people thinking even at this moment, there goes the musical neighborhood,"" he said. ""Let us not forget: We all come from the damn blues."" He pointed out that ""Tom Sawyer"" was an oft-used DJ track in early hip-hop, and said that even Albert King could be rhymed over – and then DJ Terminator X proved it in P.E.'s performance, scratching up all of the night's inductees.Chris Cornell inducted Heart, praising Ann Wilson's ageless voice and their contribution to Seattle rock. ""Somehow it never occurred to us that Ann and Nancy Wilson were women,"" he said. ""We came from an era when women normally did not rock,"" Nancy Wilson said. ""And as working moms who also seen a few parent teacher conferences, I'm even more sure we deserve this honor."" They played ""Barracuda"" beefed up by Pearl Jam's Mike McCready and Alice in Chains' Jerry Cantrell – and Ann Wilson absolutely nailed the kind of high notes that male hard rock singers of her generation tend to avoid even trying any more.Finally, it was time for the band that the audience had been shouting for all night long, and no one was as excited as Grohl and Hawkins. Grohl grew red-faced shouting his praise. ""Rock &amp; roll has forever been ensconced in mystery,"" he said. ""But there's one mystery that surely eclipses them all: When the fuck did Rush become cool? . . . Their legacy is that of a band that stayed true to themselves no matter how uncool they seemed to anyone. Rush have always been cool! Consider this mystery solved and it's our honor to finally induct Rush into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.""""We've been saying for a long time, for years, that this isn't a big deal,"" Peart said. ""Turns out it kind of is.""Hawkins and Grohl then emerged from the darkness in their Rush kimonos, and slammed through a segment of ""2112,"" gradually joined by Rush themselves. The trio played triumphant versions of ""Tom Sawyer"" and ""The Spirit of Radio,"" and it became hard to remember why it was ever a question whether these guys belonged in the Hall. ""Thank you so very much,"" said Geddy Lee.The closing jam, on Cream's version of ""Crossroads,"" began with a moving cross-genre moment, with Chuck D and DMC rhyming ""the blues gave birth to rock n' roll"" as Lee and Peart played their version of a breakbeat. The guitar jam itself was up to the greatest Hall of Fame closers ever, moving from Morello's interstellar scratching, to Gary Clark's raw rootsiness, to Lifeson's full-on Eric Clapton tribute. By the end, Chuck D and the members of Rush were exchanging hugs.";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:45";1494
20;"When the first Rock and Roll Hall of Fame induction ceremony was held in 1986, it was going to be nothing more than than a dinner in the Waldorf-Astoria ballroom with music from Paul Shaffer and his band during the evening. ""We didn't want people to feel as if they had to sing for their supper, but we had brought in instruments just in case,"" Shaffer remembered in our November 26, 2009 issue celebrating the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame's 25th anniversary.But by the end of that first ceremony, the likes of Fats Domino, Jerry Lee Lewis and Chuck Berry were on stage performing — starting a tradition that would produce explosive sessions like the 1992 all-star jam to induct Jimi Hendrix featuring Johnny Cash, Keith Richards, John Fogerty and onstage reunions like the Byrds in 1991 and Cream in 1993.In addition to the music, the ceremonies were a platform for Paul McCartney's heartfelt speech to induct John Lennon, Mike Love's crazy acceptance when the Beach Boys were inducted and other once-in-a-lifetime tributes.We collected the most star-studded jams, powerful speeches and action-packed reunions over the past 25 years — read on for these historic moments.Rock and Roll Hall of Fame: Complete Coverage1986 The Return of Chuck Berry: Keith Richards delivers the first induction speech ever on an evening that prompted Berry to plan a 60th-birthday concert propelling him back into the spotlight.1987 Springsteen Launches Roy Orbison's Comeback: Bruce inducts Orbison, who had been out of the spotlight since the late 1960s and whose career would have a remarkable revival following his the ceremony.1988 Mick, Ringo, Dylan, Elton! The Starriest Night of All: A ten-song monster jam session breaks out at the end of the 1988 ceremony featuring Mick Jagger, George Harrison, Ringo Starr, Bruce Springsteen, Bob Dylan, Jeff Beck, Elton John, Billy Joel, John Fogerty, Neil Young, the Beach Boys, Les Paul and the Drifters.1988 'Elvis Freed Your Body, Bob Freed Your Mind': Bruce Springsteen inducts Bob Dylan.1988 Mike Love: The Craziest Speech Ever: The Beach Boys vocalist lambastes nearly everyone in the room when he takes the stage for the band's induction.Next: Mick Jagger Inducts the Beatles, the All-Star Jam for Jimi and More1988 Mick Jagger Inducts the Beatles: The moment is bittersweet; Paul McCartney misses the induction due to a legal dispute with Yoko Ono, George Harrison and Ringo Starr.1989 'The Stones Changed My Life Completely': Pete Townshend inducts the Rolling Stones.1990 Seasons' End: The original lineup of the Four Seasons reunites for the first time since the mid-1960s and sings together for what would be the last time.1991 The Byrds: Eight Miles High Again: Roger McGuinn, David Crosby, Chris Hillman, Gene Clark and Michael Clarke unite for what would be the last time.1992 The All-Star Jam for Jimi: Keith Richards, Johnny Cash, John Fogerty, Little Richard and more rock greats give an epic salute to Jimi Hendrix.Next: Cream Reunites, McCartney's Final Message to Lennon and More1993 Creedence's Rocky Induction: The most tense moment in rock hall history happens when John Fogerty refuses to play with Creedence during the music portion of the ceremony.1993 Clapton Gets Cream Back Together: Twenty-five years after their last concert together, Eric Clapton, Jack Bruce and Ginger Baker take the stage for a powerhouse set.1994 McCartney's Final Message to Lennon: McCartney makes up for his absence at the Beatles' 1988 induction by welcoming John Lennon to the Rock Hall with a heartfelt speech.1994 'Prophet, Showman, Shaman, Jamaican!': Bono inducts Bob Marley.1994 One More Last Waltz for the Band — With Eric Clapton: Clapton fulfills a longstanding dream by playing ""The Weight"" with Robbie Robertson, Garth Hudson and Rick Danko.Next: Led Zeppelin's Epic Induction, Ramones' Punk-Rock Farewell and More1995 Led Zeppelin Bring It All Back Home: Robert Plant, Jimmy Page and John Paul Jones overcome band tension for an epic induction set.1997 Rascals Hang Tough, Help Little Steven Get New Gig: Steven Van Zandt scores a role on The Sopranos after inducting the Rascals — who almost fell apart rehearsing for the ceremony.2001 Steely Dan Finally Make It: Steely Dan are inducted after a half serious decade-long campaign to get themselves in.2002 Ramones' Punk-Rock Farewell: The band's surviving members honor Joey Ramone and themselves.2002 Talking Heads Make Peace for a Night: After not playing together for ""something like 18 years,"" according to Chris Frantz, the quartet joined together for a once-in-a-lifetime set.Next: Prince Inducts George Harrison, Springsteen Salutes U2 and More2004 Prince Tears the Roof off the Waldorf: Prince unleashes a breathtaking guitar solo at the end of ""While My Guitar Gently Weeps"" during the ceremony to induct George Harrison.2004 Bob Seger Returns: After staying away from the stage to be a full-time dad since 1995, Seger decides to cut a new album and go on tour the next year after having so much fun at the ceremony.2005 Springsteen Salutes U2's Mighty Sound: Bruce recalls seeing U2 for the first time as he welcomes them to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.2007 Hip-Hop Crashes Hall: Rap pioneers Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five are the first hip-hop act inducted.2009 Jeff Beck's Big Night: Jeff Beck and Jimmy Page play a medley of ""Beck's Bolero"" and ""Immigrant Song"" to cap off the guitarist's entrance to the Rock Hall as a solo artist.2010 The Stooges Get In: Iggy and the Stooges share the stage with Scott Thurston on ""Search and Destroy,"" and of course Iggy took off his shirt.2011 Neil Diamond Meets The Folks: Ever the man of the people, Diamond took a stroll into the crowd while performing ""Sweet Caroline.""2012 Guns N' Roses Go Without Axl: After the mercurial frontman made no bones about his distaste for the Hall, his former bandmates showed their distaste for him by performing anyway.2013 Rush ... and the Foo Fighters: It took the world's greatest power trio years to make the Hall, and presumably it will take just as long for superfans Dave Grohl and Taylor Hawkins to wipe the grins off their faces after performing with their heroes.";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:49";1495
21;"While the legend of Johnny Cash is heavily steeped in the five decades worth of songs that he wrote, recorded and performed via his unmistakable boom, the Man in Black was also an incredibly productive poet who was just as happy to let his pen do the talking. The new book Forever Words: The Unknown Poems, out now, assembles 41 examples of Cash's poetry. ""My father was a very prolific writer and he left behind a huge body of unpublished work,"" says John Carter Cash, who manages his famous family's multiple creative estates. ""Out of about 200 or so pieces, there were around 50 finished poems that were really cohesive, powerful and beautiful."" With the help of author Paul Muldoon, Cash pored over his father's vast catalog of unreleased material to find the pieces that both resonated the deepest and felt most complete. Their combined efforts resulted in a rich collection of poems written by Cash throughout his life, from the fresh-faced wisdom of his 12-year-old self in 1944 (""The Things We're Frightened At"") to a wistful remembrance jotted down just weeks before his death in 2003 (""Forever"").    ""Along with the music, there is a large part of my father's legacy that has to do with what he had to say,"" says Cash. ""What he believed in, what he stood for, the understanding of his own darkness, the faith that he had that drove him, and the great love that he had for people. All of these things are present here in this collection of his written works."" In fact, it is the successful showcasing of the many multitudes that co-existed within Cash's storied life that makes the poems in Forever Words feel so fresh and genuine. Love, mortality, addiction, humor, spirituality, pain, wonder, hope, heartbreak, freedom and resignation all weave in and out of Cash's poetry – just as they did in his songs – in an attempt to paint the most accurate portrait of his true self. For the younger Cash, this ""warts and all"" approach also provides for an undeniably personal connection: ""When I read these poems, it's as if my father is speaking to me again.""Adding to the humanity already present in the poetry of Forever Words, Cash also sprinkled reproductions of many of his father's original handwritten drafts throughout the book. Grade-school penmanship is deliberately plotted out on a weathered piece of ruled notebook paper in the words of ""The Things We're Frightened At."" ""I'm Comin', Honey"" captures hastily scrawled lines feverishly jotted down on a sheet of Delta Airlines in-flight stationary. And whimsical margin doodles accompany the playful text to ""Don't Make a Movie About Me."" ""Seeing my father's handwriting puts me in contact with the man he was at each stage of his life,"" says Cash. ""His handwriting could change due to things like his age, his physical health, his struggles with addiction, or his frame of mind at certain times. For example, if you look at a poem like 'Going, Going, Gone,' it's very carefully written out because he was at a period in his life in the early 1990s where he was very hyper-focused.""Cash fondly remembers his father's affection for poetry and his respect for the power of direct, simplified language. ""One of his greatest poetic influences was Edna St. Vincent Millay who wrote 'Ballad of the Harp Weaver,' which my father recorded a recitation of on his first Christmas album."" Cash also adds two other names to his father's list of inspirations, English poet William Blake and Paul the Apostle: ""My father's favorite poem was probably 'Love is patient, love is kind.' It's simply stated but pretty profound. That's how my dad wrote.""Much like the Man in Black himself, the poems found in Forever Words will not be contained to just one creative medium. ""We're also doing an album around this project,"" Cash announces. ""I've already recorded Chris Cornell, Jamey Johnson, T Bone Burnett, Dailey &amp; Vincent, Brad Paisley and Jewel. Each of these artists have taken a poem and put it to their own music. We're right in the middle of that project and plan to have it done by early next year.""While the anticipated album is still in its infancy, Cash can't help but gush a bit about how it's already shaping up. ""Dailey &amp; Vincent do a spot-on bluegrass gospel number and Cornell's track is so powerful and gut-wrenching,"" he says. The Soundgarden singer recording a Cash original provides an interesting echoed response to Cash's cover of the Cornell-penned ""Rusty Cage"" that appears on his 1996 album Unchained, which celebrated its 20-year anniversary earlier this month. When pressed for a favorite poem from Forever Words, Cash quickly gives a few off-the-cuff recommendations. ""I love 'Spirit Rider' and think it's very strong. It seems like it might've possibly been written to be a song, but I'm not completely sure,"" he shares. ""I also love 'California Poem' for its focus on separation and life's struggle between people groups. There's just so much there in those few words.""""Then there's 'Forever,'"" Cash continues, recalling his father's later years when his health was poor. Despite suffering through some of the greatest trials of his life – including the loss of his wife June Carter Cash – the Country Music and Rock and Roll Hall of Fame member continued to set aside time for the blank page. John Carter Cash says he remembers his dad, even with his eyesight failing, always carrying a notebook. ""He wrote letters to my mother. Some were hopeful and loving and tender, while others were full of angst and sadness and loss. In the four months after my mother passed away, while my dad was still living, sometimes it seemed as if the darkness was winning in his heart,"" says Cash, who finally settles on ""Forever"" as his favorite entry in the book.""In the midst of his suffering and his loss, there stood these words from 'Forever' that speak of an enduring legacy of hope and the idea that the good that he had spread in life would continue. He's saying there's a light at the end of the tunnel – and it's not necessarily a train that's coming.""";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:55";1496
22;"Well, I hope you’re sitting down so you will not die of shock; Sean Penn hates Steve Bannon. They crossed paths in Bannon’s Hollywood days. The Alt-Right mouthpiece helped finance “The Indian Runner,” which Penn directed. By way of comment about his old Exec-Producer, Penn said:Of course, start with the favorable aspects, Sean. “The Indian Runner” was a critical hit for Penn and financial flop for Bannon (yes!) who went on to help finance Seinfeld, which was buying Intel at 5 (yechh). His artistic/political philosophy:And, no matter what is to happen to Ol’ Stevie, that’s the Drumpf administration.";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:57";1497
23;"It all came from that evening, in spring 1946.Merle Haggard was nine. He had been at a Church of Christ prayer meeting outside Bakersfield, California, with his mother, Flossie. The young boy didn't like church. This night he meant to race home, where he knew his father, James Haggard – a genial man who had once taken his son by the hand and led him to a friend's house to pick out a fox terrier that the boy named Jack – would be waiting. Merle jumped across the railroad tracks on the way to the family's boxcar home, ahead of his mother. ""Before I even got to the yard, I could tell something was wrong,"" he later recalled. ""There was no sign of Jack anywhere. I tried to ignore a chill I felt coming up my back... The light was out in the front room, and I could see only one little light at the back of the house... Then I saw him.""Related                                                              Inside Merle Haggard's Final Years              In his last decade, the country icon found solace on his ranch, but he stayed restless to the end            ""He was sitting in the shadows in the big chair... I could see tears running down his cheeks. I'd never seen my Daddy cry before."" James had been driving when he suffered a stroke. He had managed to steer the car home and get himself into the chair. ""I been waitin' for you and Merle to come home.""Haggard spent many years – maybe all the years that followed – trying to fathom that evening. ""Something went out of my world that I was never able to replace,"" he wrote. When the family took James to the hospital after his stroke, he reached out in the car to his son and touched him gently. Merle was present during check-in, when James suffered a brain hemorrhage. Days later, he was hit with another, which killed him. It was a transformative loss for Merle, the central event of his life. In later years, ""I began to realize that things would have been different, maybe better, if he'd lived,"" he told Rolling Stone's Jason Fine. Haggard, still a child, ran away and lived as a rebel from that season forward – his home no longer held meaning or comfort for him. His rebellion turned into lawbreaking, until he saw other men die, or lose their souls irretrievably, along that same path. He turned to the dream that his father longed for – making music – but had never felt free to pursue. Haggard thrived at it, as if redeeming a heritage.From the start, he commanded attention with his voice. In contrast to Hank Williams' nervy drawl or Johnny Cash's rough-hewn, colloquial way of sharing predicaments, Haggard began with an impossibly beautiful voice. His brandy-toned, barroom plea could glide up a scale fluidly, without any discernible steps; it was a prodigy's feat, like Frank Sinatra's young mellifluence or Jim Reeves' plaintive Western croon.Haggard's voice yielded hard truths – songs about hearts lost in alcohol's shadow, men who couldn't find honest support and lived outside the law. Though his audience didn't know it for years, he was often singing about himself. Of all the country artists who bore or brandished an outlaw image, Haggard had come up against that life, and paid for it. That authenticity helped make him one of the most revered singers and songwriters that country music ever delivered. By the end of his life, 38 of his albums appeared on Billboard's country-music top 10 charts; more than a dozen made it to Number One. He also had 38 Number One singles. Hits like ""Branded Man,"" ""Sing Me Back Home,"" ""Mama Tried"" – about lives forfeited in punishment or desperation – found their way into Americans' conscience. Some, though – most famously, ""Okie From Muskogee"" – kindled the worst instincts of the nation's temperament and fears.   Over the course of the years, Haggard went from being a voice of the heartbroken and displaced to inciting reactionaries and flag-wavers, to becoming a dissenter himself, both politically and artistically. He'd arrive at truths – or at love – only to question those verities. He could even seem diffident about his voice, perhaps country's greatest vocal instrument. He rested on nothing; he knew a deeper rest and certainty were coming.""There is a restlessness in my soul,"" he once said, ""that I've never conquered, not with motion, marriages or meaning... [It's] still there to a degree. And it will be till the day I die.""                                Country western singer and guitarist, Merle Haggard, performs at an outdoor 1980 Anaheim, California, concert at Anaheim Stadium.            George Rose/Getty            In the late 1960s, Merle Haggard famously declared himself an Okie from Muskogee. He meant it as a way of identifying with, and standing for, endangered values, as America was in a social ferment that divided generations, regions, political convictions and ways of living. New things were in the air – drug use and youth revolt. The audience Haggard was speaking to saw this change as a threat, as an alien incursion that filled the streets and headlines, that derided patriotism and long-held common notions of decency. Haggard's imagery seemed hackneyed – ""We still wave Old Glory down at the courthouse"" – but it spoke powerfully and immediately to people who felt under attack.Haggard must have known, though, that when he invoked the word ""Okie,"" he was also summoning a history of people who had themselves been seen as a peril, an invading populace: the Dust Bowl refugees from Oklahoma, Texas, Arkansas, Missouri and other parts of the Southern Plains who had fled the ruin of the Great Depression in the 1930s. They were all called Okies when they flooded into the western United States – a place that wanted no part of them. The disdain and occasional violence they met with was dramatized by John Steinbeck in his novel The Grapes of Wrath.Haggard was a part of that heritage, though his family never saw themselves as people in flight. His parents ran a successful-enough farm around Checotah, Oklahoma, 25 miles south of Muskogee, but after a mysterious fire – suspected as arson – destroyed their barn, they moved with their two children, Lowell and Lillian, to the Bakersfield region of Southern California. The Haggards, like other Okie emigrants, weren't welcome in Bakersfield itself. Instead, they located in a migrant settlement, Oildale, near the Kern River – not in a shantytown, but in a railroad boxcar that James adapted into a mobile home. Merle Haggard was born on April 6th, 1937. ""We lived like the Beverly Hillbillies,"" he once said. His father wasn't sure the family should stay in California, but Flossie wouldn't hear of leaving. ""We're not going back to Oklahoma,"" Merle recalled her telling his father, in the singer's first autobiography, 1981's Sing Me Back Home. ""We're not goin' to lose all we've worked for – might as well get this travelin' out of your head.""Merle had a special concern for his father. ""[He] was a large gentle man,"" he wrote. ""The thing I remember most about him now was the way he could smile so easy and make everybody feel everything was all right... My mother was a more serious-type person, given to worry when there was little to worry about."" He also wrote, ""Sometimes I'd toss in bed at night and wonder what it was Daddy wanted out of life. I got to thinking that he must have dreams he was letting go by and I knew he had great love for music, but he didn't seem to work at it much."" Before getting married, James had played fiddle in honky-tonk bars, but Flossie was a pious member of the conservative Church of Christ. She didn't approve of musicians who played for such purposes, and reformed James to fit her beliefs. In California, he became a carpenter for the Santa Fe railroad.                                Seven-year-old Merle with his father, James, in 1944.            Courtesy of the Haggard Family            Merle, like his father, loved music – as a small child, he would insist on hearing a daily country program on the radio. By early adolescence, he had already identified his musical touchstones – the early-20th-century Father of Country Music, Jimmie Rodgers; Western swing musician, songwriter and bandleader Bob Wills; singer-songwriter Hank Williams, who died at age 29 in the back seat of his Cadillac en route to a New Year's Day show in 1953; and definitive honky-tonk singer Lefty Frizzell. Flossie recognized her son's interest in music, but she wanted to steer it to something respectable. She got Merle violin lessons in the first grade – but he didn't want to learn violin. He wanted to play fiddle, like his father, without formal training. He had a natural aptitude for it, his sister, Lillian, told The New Yorker in 1990. ""'I don't know, Sis,' he'd tell me. 'My fingers just do it.' The teacher told my mother that she was wasting her money. I think he got his first guitar when he was around 10. He loved it.""Merle's mother knew he felt unmoored; she couldn't contain him. After James' death, Flossie took work as a bookkeeper, and Merle became, as Lillian described him, ""a latchkey kid, unsupervised... Merle needed what they call now 'after-death counseling.' He felt he was to blame for his dad's death. He felt he was a burden to his mother. He was always ornery... There had never been any wild children in the family, no previous pattern of independent behavior, so the bull was out of the barn before anyone recognized it."" That bull never wanted to be captive again. ""When I was very young,"" he wrote, ""I decided what I didn't want to be. I was determined not to spend my life in some set pattern."" School didn't absorb Merle, and church bored him. At age 10, he and a friend loaded pillowcases with food and hopped a freight car, as so many Dust Bowl émigrés had done. They didn't get far; a train-yard officer found them along the tracks in Fresno, California. The flight troubled Merle's mother – why didn't he use his father's train pass? She wanted her son to stay at home and in school – he was too young for such a dangerous escapade. But even though he was a child, Merle had eyed the horizon; he would run at that horizon over and over, harder and harder, until 1958, when he met a high wall.Haggard's exploits and rebellion grew bigger and more exciting, and more foolish and dangerous. As a child, he behaved like a street-wise adult. In 1951, at 14, Merle and his friend Bob Teague ventured to see Lefty Frizzell in concert at the Rainbow Gardens in Bakersfield, but both got so drunk they passed out and missed the first set. (They revived in time for his second performance.) That same year, he and Teague hitchhiked to Texas to try to find Frizzell's home. They had also purchased a pistol and a switchblade, and on their way home, they were arrested and spent five days in jail. In Modesto, California, the teenage Haggard played guitar one night in a club for beer. He and a friend also visited a brothel in Amarillo, Texas. He bought new boots for the occasion. ""I think the cowboy boots affected me more,"" he said. ""I mean, the gal just affirmed what I already knew, but the cowboy boots made a new man out of me."" He would end up in about 17 youth correctional facilities or jails. He escaped from many of them, only to eventually get apprehended again. He and others were beaten or punished heartlessly by guards, and one night, a boy sleeping in a bunk next to him was knifed. ""It was the cells I was in that corrupted me,"" he said. ""My idols changed during those years, from Jimmie Rodgers to Bonnie and Clyde. Hell, people were after me, running me down like I was a criminal."" Haggard stole several cars, committed petty thefts, and was nearly lynched one night by men looking for somebody who had raped and murdered a girl in the vicinity of Haggard's escape. Another time, in Oildale, during an attempted robbery, he and a friend badly beat a young man who others had taunted as ""retarded""; they broke his jaw. ""I'd changed from that little boy who wanted to be just like his daddy,"" Haggard wrote in Sing Me Back Home. ""It was the sickest and most degrading thing I ever did... Was I going to become like those goddamned people I'd hated so bad? I felt bad. Worse, I felt guilty.""In 1956, Haggard married the first of his five wives: Leona Hobbs, a young woman he'd met one night while on his way to a Bakersfield drive-in stand. He was 19, she was around 16, and the two lived with his brother, Lowell, and his wife. It could've been a critical moment; Haggard started to play in clubs during this time, and became an increasingly skillful singer. But their relationship turned ugly. ""My youngest daughter, Kelli,"" Haggard wrote in 1981, ""has a theory about me and her mother. She says God must have wanted to punish us both for some terrible event, so He gave us each other."" Haggard was playing Bakersfield clubs during the time – sometimes for free, sometimes for pay – and believed Leona was trying to undermine him. ""She liked to hear me sing,"" he recounted, ""or at least that's what people said she said behind my back. To my face, it was always a different story. She was always making fun... I overheard [guitarist] Roy Nichols ask her once why she hadn't been down to the club to hear me sing. She just laughed and told him she had better things to do."" For his part, Haggard wasn't ready for the confines of his marriage, which would eventually produce four children. When he went on the run – or ended up in jail, as he did for nine months after stealing a car – he didn't leave means of support for Leona. He missed the delivery of their first child, Dana, during that stretch. Shortly thereafter, he robbed a gas station where he had once worked and headed out to New Mexico to seek work in the oil fields, but there were no jobs and Haggard returned home. The losses were quickly adding up for a young life. ""In 1957, I was 20 years old,"" he said. ""I had spent nearly half my life running away or behind bars.""At Christmastime in 1957, he brought Leona along for what proved his dumbest and most ill-fortuned debacle, when he and a friend attempted a restaurant burglary. ""We were out of work,"" Haggard later told The New Yorker. ""We thought the place was closed; we were so drunk we thought it was 3 a.m., when it was only 10:30 at night."" When the perplexed owner walked in, Haggard took off running, leaving Leona and his infant outside in his car's back seat. He was promptly caught – and almost just as promptly escaped, walking out of the jail unnoticed the next morning. Local police were through with Haggard; they issued a shoot-on-sight order. He was rearrested and spent two months in a minimum-security prison while California decided what to do with him. When a guard slipped Haggard's new prison assignment through the bars of his cell, he stared in disbelief at the order. ""Hey, there's been a mistake,"" he said. It read, ""Destination: San Quentin."" Merle Haggard had been given a six-month-to-15-year sentence.San Quentin is a legendary and painful place – opened in 1852, it is the oldest prison in California and has the state's only death row for males. Haggard arrived there in February 1958, at age 20. Not knowing whether he would be there for months or years was a torment. ""God,"" he wrote, ""that does something to a man's mind that never heals up right."" An inmate friend, James ""Rabbit"" Kendrick, began planning an escape, and Haggard contemplated joining him. He witnessed things at San Quentin that forever haunted him: ""Horrors too terrible to think about, much less talk about... Some times when I lay in my bunk, I could hear men crying out in pain from being raped by other inmates.""                                In San Quentin (center)                        During a stay in isolation – for being found drunk on beer he brewed in his own cell – Haggard came to know Caryl Chessman, in conversations through an air vent. Chessman was the most famous man on death row in America. In May 1948, he had been convicted of robbery, kidnapping and rape, and sentenced to death – the first convict in America to receive the death penalty for a nonlethal kidnapping. Haggard recalled that on the night before Chessman's execution by cyanide gas on May 2nd, 1960, ""there was a strange feeling all over the prison. The men said very little. It was so quiet it was scary... We could hear people singing hymns out on the hillside. Between the songs we could hear prayers."" Haggard would also see his friend Kendrick – who had succeeded in escaping but was recaptured after he shot and killed a police officer – put on death row. Kendrick had told Merle, ""You've got talent. You can be somebody someday."" Chessman's and Kendrick's deaths stayed with Haggard, as did Kendrick's encouragement. He later turned the memories into the opening lines of his finest song, ""Sing Me Back Home"": ""The warden led a prisoner down the hallway to his doom/I stood up to say goodbye like all the rest/And I heard him tell the warden just before he reached my cell/'Let my guitar-playing friend do my request.'""The deaths, the time in isolation, Leona's failure to visit (she had become pregnant by another man) all changed Merle Haggard. He also saw Johnny Cash play at San Quentin on a New Year's Day. The singer's empathy with the convicts, his commitment to providing them with whatever uplift possible, showed Haggard a new way forward. ""I didn't care for his music before that – I thought it was corny,"" Haggard said. ""But he had the crowd right in the palm of his hand."" Haggard and Cash later became close and devoted friends. Many years later, before Cash died in 2003, Haggard visited his friend in the hospital's ICU, dressed in a doctor's coat. Haggard recalled the moment to Rolling Stone: ""Cash said, 'What are you doing here, Haggard?' I said, 'I'm here because I love you.'""Haggard was paroled from San Quentin in October 1960, 90 days after his stay in isolation. Leona did not meet him, but he returned to Bakersfield, to her and his children and his music; he began to assemble musicians and sing in clubs. He had changed; he had internalized his crimes into his memory, though he would always be a restless man, and a troubled one. Sometimes those aspects created his songs, and sometimes they created havoc and hurt, for him and others.How did it all go from those early abject years to the glory and magnificent success that soon followed? Much of what redeemed Haggard was already latent – the ability to sing skillfully and expressively. At age 13, when Lefty Frizzell's ""I Love You a Thousand Ways"" was a hit, Haggard learned to emulate Frizzell's remarkable voice. Because Frizzell was a disciple of Jimmie Rodgers, Haggard learned Rodgers' croon and yodel too. (""He was a great imitator,"" says Willie Nelson. ""He could do Glen Campbell, Johnny Cash and Buck Owens."") In time, Haggard used his own voice to convey his own truths. The opening verse of ""Mama Tried"" summed up his life after his father's death: ""The first thing I remember knowing/Was a lonesome whistle blowing/And a young'un's dream of growing up to ride/On a freight train leaving town/Not knowing where I'm bound/And no one could change my mind, but Mama tried.""Once back in Bakersfield, Haggard made his mark as a performer. The town emerged in the 1950s and 1960s as a Southwestern reaction against the increasingly polished, mannered and orchestrated sound that came to characterize much of Nashville's country-music production and songwriting. Buck Owens' backings were lean and lively; they stripped away some of the lachrymose fiddles and steel-guitar beauty, and instead brought something like a rockabilly edginess. Dwight Yoakam remembers Haggard explaining the difference between the two sounds: ""He said, 'Country music in Nashville came out of the church, and country music in California came out of honky-tonks and bars.'"" Haggard had a pop instinct: His first hit, 1963's ""Sing a Sad Song"" – a composition given to him by friend and mentor Wynn Stewart – was an artful sob tale sung in a magnificent range. His voice won the attention of Capitol Records (which had also signed Owens). What followed was a staggering run of country hits, the lyrics of which were a complicated medley of pain. ""He came on the scene with a bang,"" says Nelson. ""He wrote more Number One hits than me, Kris [Kristofferson], anybody. He was a great one to follow."" Sixties tracks like ""(My Friends Are Gonna Be) Strangers"" and ""The Fugitive,"" both by Liz Anderson, and Haggard's own ""Swinging Doors"" and ""The Bottle Let Me Down"" built a persona of a drunk man drowning his losses, or a man in flight – both forms of escape. Subsequent hits filled out the picture more and, unbeknownst to Haggard's listeners, veered into autobiography. ""Branded Man,"" ""Sing Me Back Home"" and ""Mama Tried"" were all convict songs – tales of men who would never make it out of prison alive, or if they did, might never find a home in the outside world.                                Country musician Merle Haggard poses for a mid 1960's portrait.            Michael Ochs Archive/Getty            It would take Haggard years to own up to the fact that his songs were increasingly his own story. Before he could, he almost made that story worse. In the mid-1960s, he returned to Bakersfield after a successful tour with Hank Snow, Waylon Jennings and Bobby Bare, eager to share the success with Leona, only to discover that she had taken the children and left. He tracked her down to her mother's home, where she was with her new boyfriend. ""Rage overtook me,"" Haggard related in his memoir My House of Memories. ""A tired and jealous man, hearing a wife with a history of cheating talk about her current affair, will lose control."" Haggard went for Leona's throat, and her boyfriend didn't intervene. ""In seconds, I was choking her... That day, I could have earned myself a return trip to San Quentin, where I could have wound up like Rabbit or Caryl Chessman. And at that moment, I fully intended to. I had wrapped my hands around her throat, and I could not seem to remove them. I choked her until she was gagging."" Two friends, including Bonnie Owens, intervened. They saved both Leona and Merle, but by the time it was over, he no longer loved her.It was Cash who persuaded Haggard to come clean about his secrets. One night, on Cash's national ABC-TV show, he told Merle he believed he had seen him before. When Haggard allowed that it had been at San Quentin, on January 1st, 1959, Cash said he didn't remember that they had both played on the stage that day. Haggard told Cash they hadn't; rather, Haggard had been in the audience. Cash's stratagem worked. Both a country and a popular audience respected Haggard's candor. ""Johnny Cash once told me, 'Hag, you're the guy people think I am.'"" It also made for an intricate picture: Haggard didn't celebrate the criminal life, nor did he revile what he had learned.By the late 1960s, Haggard had emerged as one of country music's greatest artists – an incomparable singer, bandleader and hitmaker, and with 1969's ""Workin' Man Blues,"" even a folk hero, something like Jimmie Rodgers (whose music he extensively covered in a 1969 double album, Same Train, A Different Time) or Woody Guthrie, giving voice to the working class, the poor, migrants, drifters, those doomed or in flight, those who had been misjudged. Haggard told GQ in 2012 that he was comfortable being seen that way: ""I sometimes feel like I'm standing up for the people that don't have the nerve to stand up for themselves. I just enjoyed winning for the loser. I'd never been around anything except losers my whole life... I had been sad and angry, and now I was composed and in a position to do good for the sad and angry.""But Haggard followed ""Workin' Man Blues"" in 1969 with ""Okie From Muskogee,"" the most controversial work of his career – a song that defined him for many, and that he answered for during the rest of his life. ""Okie"" was an anti-counterculture song in an incendiary time; the music felt sweet – it almost made the song feel like gentle mockery, but there was nothing gentle about its effect. ""That's how I got into it with the hippies,"" he said. ""I thought they were unqualified to judge America, and I thought about them lookin' down their noses at something that I cherished very much, and it pissed me off."" In Merle Haggard: The Running Kind, author David Cantwell noted, ""Everywhere [Merle Haggard and the Strangers] went, every show, 'Okie' did more than prompt enthusiastic applause. There was an unanticipated adulation racing through the crowds... Merle had somehow stumbled upon a song that expressed previously inchoate fears, spoke out loud gripes and anxieties otherwise only whispered, and now people were using his song, were using him, to connect themselves to these larger concerns and to one another."" Haggard played the song for the Nixon White House, and was asked to endorse segregationist George Wallace during his presidential run; he declined. Haggard, in fact, wanted to issue ""Irma Jackson,"" a song about an interracial love affair, as his next single but was talked into releasing ""The Fightin' Side of Me,"" an even more inflammatory screed aimed at protesters' criticisms of America.                                At the White House with President Nixon and first lady Pat Nixon, March 1973.            Bettman/Getty            Over the years, Haggard has accounted for ""Okie"" in numerous ways. In 1970, referring to the hippies that the song targeted, he told Rolling Stone, ""I don't like their views on life, their filth, their visible self-disrespect."" In 2003, though, he told No Depression magazine, ""I was dumb as a rock when I wrote 'Okie From Muskogee.' That's being honest with you at the moment, and a lot of things that I said [then] I sing with a different intention now."" Haggard became a regular marijuana user himself at age 41, on the advice of a physician, he told GQ. ""The only thing they didn't tell me,"" he said, ""was how habit-forming it was."" He was an on-and-off pot smoker for the rest of his life. (In the 2015 video of Haggard and Willie Nelson's ""It's All Going to Pot,"" from Django &amp; Jimmie, both singers are seen smoking joints together.)The massive success of ""Okie From Muskogee"" and ""Fightin' Side of Me"" obscured that he also made some tremendous other work in the time that followed – notably his testimonial to Bob Wills (A Tribute to the Best Damn Fiddle Player in the World, 1970), and from 1971 to 1977, a string of often exceptional albums. Much of this was music that dug deep into despair, and empathy. Sometimes – in Hag and Someday We'll Look Back (both 1971), If We Make It Through December (1974) – those qualities turned inward; these were portraits of a haunted man who doubted the love he had embraced, who was ready to strike out for another place and life, a refuge from an imagined past or delusory future.On the powerful A Working Man Can't Get Nowhere Today (1977), he paid respect to his heroes Hank Williams and Lefty Frizzell (the latter had died in 1975) and reasserted an identification with and concern for the disadvantaged, though one track, ""I'm a White Boy,"" risked some troubling notions: ""I don't want no handout livin'/And don't want a part of anything they're givin'/I'm proud and white, and I've got a song to sing."" (In The Running Kind, Cantwell referred to the song as ""an aggrieved-feeling white reply to James Brown's 'Say It Loud – I'm Black and I'm Proud.'"")Still, Haggard's jingoist anthems had the effect of deepening his mystifying complexity on all levels. He was both a compassionate and angry man – a lovely-voiced singer whose smooth tone disguised a capacity for animosity, and like Bob Dylan, an artist and thinker who sometimes seemed in conflict with his own art and thoughts.                                With Johnny Cash, 1969.            ABC Photo Archives/Getty            Haggard had overcome his youthful wildness – at least, arguably, the lawless part of it – but he could still undercut stability as soon as he made a partner of it. By the time he ended with Leona Hobbs, in 1965, Haggard had already started a relationship with Bonnie Owens, Buck's former wife. (He stole her from Fuzzy Owen, the man who first recorded Haggard and later served as the singer's manager until the end of Haggard's life.) He and Bonnie soon married, and recorded and toured together. They divorced in 1978, but continued a friendship that endured until Owens' death in 2006. (The two shared the writing credit for ""Today I Started Loving You Again,"" a song about the bond they felt.) After Owens, Haggard immediately married Leona Williams, who also sang with his band. The couple released a duet album in 1983, Heart to Heart, the same year Haggard released his classic collaboration with Nelson, Pancho &amp; Lefty.Like his marriage to the earlier Leona, Haggard's relationship with Williams turned bitter. One day near the end of their marriage, Haggard related in My House of Memories, Williams called Merle. ""I begged her to come back,"" Haggard wrote. ""I had been doing that for six months and suddenly got sick of myself and my pleading. Something inside me snapped. I instantly went from sorrow to anger. When she phoned again, I said, 'Can you hear me?'""'Yes,' she said.""'Can you hear me real good?'""'Yes,' she said again.""'Fuck you!' I shouted.""These were wild years for Haggard – the only time in his life, he said later, that he dabbled with hard drugs. After the break with Williams, ""I went out and got some of the best cocaine I could find, because that was a drug that could numb my feelings,"" he told R.J. Smith in 2000, ""and it did what I wanted it to do."" He lived aboard a houseboat on Lake Shasta in California, and kept a party going, hosting wet-T-shirt contests and sleeping all day. ""A famous female country-music star and I once spent five days nude on the boat,"" Haggard wrote in House of Memories. ""We snorted drugs the entire time and didn't go to sleep once.""Haggard wrote about a time when a friend, Upshaw, came aboard the boat, worried about the singer: ""He found me passed out with a woman. He called our names, but we didn't move. He began to shake us, and still there was no response.""Finally, the woman and I came around.""I thought I was out of it from sheer exhaustion more than the drugs. But Upshaw and everyone else sized it up differently.""I apparently told Upshaw he had just saved my life, and then sat on the bed and wept. He and I must have cried for 30 minutes, Upshaw says.""Haggard's sister, Lillian, thought that Merle's reckless behavior was rooted in the loneliness of his childhood: ""He hated it then, and he hates to be alone now. He used to give toys away to get neighbor kids to play with him. Sometimes I think he's still doing that.""Haggard hated being alone enough that in 1985 he married a waitress friend, Debbie Parret, who had taken care of him. ""I knew an hour after the wedding it was a mistake,"" he said. Around that time, he met Theresa Ann Lane; actually, he stole her from his guitarist at the time, Clint Strong. If the relationship at first seemed as impulsive as some of Haggard's other choices, it also proved the one that lasted. Haggard divorced Parret, then married Lane in September 1993. The couple had two children, Jenessa and Ben, and settled at the singer's ranch, outside Redding, California. Theresa reformed Merle as much as anybody ever had or ever would. She persuaded him to quit caffeine, red meat and cigarettes, and to take up a course of herbal supplements. Haggard would also eventually straighten out his often-troubled finances, though not before he had to declare bankruptcy, in 1993.Haggard's recorded output gradually lessened over the years, but, like Johnny Cash and Bob Dylan, he entered an autumnal creative renaissance. With If I Could Only Fly (2000), Roots, Vol. 1 (2001), Like Never Before (2003), Chicago Wind (2005), The Bluegrass Sessions (2007), I Am What I Am (2010), Working in Tennessee (2011), and two collaborative sets – Last of the Breed, with Nelson and Ray Price (2007), and his most recent release, Django &amp; Jimmie, with Nelson (2015) – Haggard made not just terrific albums but also music that mixed traditional sounds with surprising radicalism. (Though his politics never settled into ideological patterns, he increasingly found himself at odds with America's war policies, and took great hope in the meaning of Barack Obama's election.) It's as if with every new work, maybe every new day, he examined where he stood: Where is this all headed, both for the nation and for himself? He could be hard on both – especially himself. ""I've never known of any singer with a quality voice to last past 60 years old,"" he told The New Yorker in 1990. ""I'll be 52 in April. I know it's gotta be over before long. I'm enjoyin' my last few years... It catches up with you. I used to be able to come in half lit, worryin' about something else – where I'm goin' after the show is over, something – and give it about 20 percent of my concentration, and walk away with a standing ovation. I don't – I can't – do one like that anymore.""                                Merle Haggard performs with Willie Nelson in August 26, 1988.            Beth Gwinn/Getty            In this regard, Haggard was too hard on himself. Many singers – Frank Sinatra, Jimmy Scott, Willie Nelson, Bob Dylan, among others – could compensate for a loss of range or even pitch by relinquishing their voices to their age. If they couldn't always hit the same rhythmic bounce, erotic spirit or nimble inflections that had once made them inventive, they instead let their singing bare their vulnerability. Their timing dragged occasionally as if in a rueful afterthought, their grain coarsened enough to illuminate a longing that could no longer be realistically pleased. Haggard could do this as well as Sinatra did in his remarkable later years. It hardly mattered that Haggard worked from country- and blues-derived practices, whereas Sinatra drew from Billie Holiday's ideal of control, which made a song's words seem like unpremeditated thoughts communicated artlessly among intimates, in the moment. Sinatra, Holiday and Haggard were essentially barroom singers. Desire and grief both thrived best in darkened spaces, including places of the heart.Grief was the one thing that Haggard didn't try to reinvent every day. In 1997, he had heart surgery. He was only 60, but his face and carriage made him seem older. He could still appear fierce – friends sometimes described him as possessing a ""prison-yard stare"" that you wanted to avoid. ""I felt a sorrow for Merle, even when he smiled,"" says Yoakam. ""It was all around him."" In 2008, Haggard was diagnosed with lung cancer. He underwent surgery late in the year; surgeons removed part of his upper-right lung. ""There was a good possibility it was over,"" he told Rolling Stone the following year. ""When it hits your lungs, it's usually everywhere else. A guy's gotta think – realistically. I was just hoping I'd made the right spiritual preparations.""A few weeks after the surgery, Haggard was playing shows in Bakersfield again, and during the six years that followed, he made I Am What I Am and Working in Tennessee. He performed with Nelson, Jamey Johnson and Kris Kristofferson. ""He'd call me up at 3 a.m. to talk about writing,"" Johnson says. ""Once he said, 'I woke up this morning and I had a spot on my leg about the size of a quarter. It didn't hurt, so I reached down and pinched the living shit out of it.' That was his sense of humor.""Haggard had effectively willed himself a latter-day reclamation, but he doubted he'd ever see a hit again. Then, in 2015, he and Nelson recorded the masterful Django &amp; Jimmie – the title was a tribute to the singers' early heroes, French jazz guitarist Django Reinhardt and Jimmie Rodgers. The album went to Number One immediately upon its June release. In December, though, Haggard was hospitalized for pneumonia at the Eisenhower Medical Center in Rancho Mirage, California. He recovered but canceled concerts.On February 6th, Haggard played Mandalay Bay Ballroom in Las Vegas. When singer Toby Keith visited Haggard at Mandalay, Keith embraced Haggard and was alarmed at how frail he seemed. Haggard told Keith he had to play the show; he needed the payday for his band, the Strangers. Keith offered to pay the band for him. Haggard declined, but according to actor W. Earl Brown, he asked Keith, ""How many songs of mine do you know?"" Keith replied he knew them all. ""All of 'em?"" said Haggard. ""Well, stay nearby."" A few songs in, during ""Ramblin' Fever,"" Haggard looked over and pointed at Keith, who stepped in and sang the lead vocal. ""Merle's infected lungs were spent,"" wrote Brown. ""He couldn't draw enough air to sing any longer."" It was one of Haggard's last shows.In the coming weeks, his condition worsened; as the end neared, Haggard asked to be brought out to his tour bus, parked outside his ranch home near Redding. He died on the bus on April 6th, his 79th birthday, with his family attending him. Haggard had once declared, ""I'm not an ordinary man."" It was the one certitude he allowed himself. He hadn't been ordinary since 1946, when the world he trusted passed away. To solve that loss, he gave many of us a solace he likely never allowed himself, until a morning 70 years later, when he finally rested in the dark embrace that held his father, and that now held Merle Haggard as well.";0;"2017-04-09 09:31:58";1498
24;"When Canadian indie-rock band Wintersleep were recording their new album, The Great Detachment, they got sidetracked chatting about their love for one of their country's most famous musical exports. ""We were talking about how amazing Rush was ... and how incredible Geddy Lee is,"" Paul Murphy, the band's lead singer, told Rolling Stone. ""He can sing these incredibly complex melodies with complex lyrics, while playing perhaps even more incredibly complex bass parts, while also operating foot pedals. If there was an instrument he could play with his eyeballs, I'm sure he'd be able to!""Related                                                              10 Things We Learned From Rush's Michael Moore Interview              Geddy Lee, Alex Lifeson talk pre-fame days, 'Permanent Waves' and Dave Grohl with director/superfan at SiriusXM Q&amp;A            Coincidentally, later that same night, the band ran into trouble while fine-tuning the bass line on one of the tracks, ""Territory."" ""It was cool but the song didn't feel as lively as it should in the end,"" Murphy explains. ""Someone was like, 'What would Geddy Lee do?' jokingly, and Tony [Doogan, producer] was like, 'Oh, the best bass player in the world? He'd make it incredible. Why don't we just ask him?'""They did, and Wintersleep's ""what if ...?"" fantasy quickly turned into reality.""Wintersleep contacted me a while ago and asked me to play bass on this track,"" Lee told RS. ""I had a listen and loved the song and the vibe of the band. I had a blast laying down a bunch of takes and sent them off to them. I'm happy to support a fellow Canadian band and wish them all the best with their new album.""The result is ""Territory"" — no relation to the 1985 Rush song ""Territories"" — a muscular, hard-driving track that builds to a bright, yearning chorus. Lee's trademark gritty tone and melodic inventiveness are easily identifiable, but there's nothing showy about the performance; his bass lines blend perfectly with Loel Campbell's drums and provide a firm anchor for the rest of the track.""The bass line we originally had for 'Territory' was just kind of playing the roots of the song,"" Murphy explains of Lee's contribution. ""There was a sort of hook-line melody in the choruses, but that melody sort of combated with Tim [D'eon]'s lead line in a weird way. It's kind of an odd time signature, so it sometimes is hard thinking more creatively when a riff is long and kind of odd like that. In the end, the song just felt a little sticky and maybe a bit too dark, lacking the energy it needed. With a relatively dark lyric and a generous amount of minor notes in the progression, you have to be careful because it can just feel a bit dark and a bit too stone-faced or something.""Geddy's part was perfect because it had this great groove and locked into the vocal melody in the song from time to time, bringing more weight to the melody in important spots. It added a certain playful dimension to the equation because it's so dynamic. Also, Tony was able to strip the song down more in the mix in sections because the bass had such a neat character and fuller sound, which was huge for the song dynamically.""""Territory"" will appear on Wintersleep's The Great Detachment, out March 4th via Dine Alone Records. Fans who preorder the album starting February 19th will receive an instant download of ""Territory."" In November, Rush released R40 Live, a CD/DVD/Blu-ray document of what was likely their final large-scale tour.";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:02";1499
25;"White supremacist Jeff Hall, a regional director for the National Socialist Movement, was killed early Sunday by a shot to the head. It was his 10-year-old son who pulled the trigger. Hall reportedly raised his children to share in his beliefs, and so far a motive for the killing is unknown.Hall and the National Socialist Movement had also recently been branching out into politics, according to recent coverage in The New York Times. While covering the white-supremacist movement in 2009 for Newsweek, I spoke with Hall about his surprise at the rise in popularity of his movement (which the Anti-Defamation League describes as the largest Neo-Nazi organization in the country), an extensive interview that—due to space—was not published in the final version of my story.“We’re not hunters, and we’re not killers. We’re observers.”As white supremacists go, Hall was immensely personable. After time spent with the Ku Klux Klan in Arkansas and with NSM members in Missouri, it was strangely refreshing, and not a little bit disturbing, to speak with such an affable “hater”—a term many white supremacists say they abhor. The general idea presented to me was that hate was not their aim—it was love. Love of white people. Children ( you can see several here) were a big part of the Klan gathering I attended, with many of them studying “white” history in a separate little schoolhouse—and even singing about it—during a revival-like session that at times felt more like a picnic than a strategy session designed to ostracize minorities. Many, if not most, were home-schooled.Hall, like the Klan people I interviewed, wanted to present himself as reasonable and mainstream. The NSM group I spent time with in Missouri, for example, had an adopt-a-highway sign they were quite proud of, something the Klan probably wouldn’t get away with. “The Klan is too far right,” Hall told me. “People have a hard time getting past that.” His branch of the rapidly growing NSM, based in Riverside, California, had a strong focus on controlling immigration, and in patrolling the border themselves—angry that the authorities seemed to be failing at their jobs.“We use guys from past and current wars to train us,” Hall said. “We have one guy who was in Iraq, another was a sniper. We take our training very seriously. When we patrol, there is no barrier between us and them, just natural terrain.” Back then, he told me they were starting a new unit in San Diego, and another in the Bay Area. “Last month we started our new unit in the Bay Area. You couldn’t believe how many people were into it—it’s so liberal up there, but even them. It was wild, a whole different atmosphere, but they were like-minded people.” People who wanted to celebrate their own European heritage, people who were frustrated with immigration and losing jobs—some also were worried over the recent election of an African American as president. But Hall’s most significant following, he said, was in the Inland Empire—Riverside. “And patrolling the border is our main thing.” (A Times reporter, Julie Platner, extensively covered Hall and photographed some of those border patrols.Hall insisted that no one was out there to harm illegal crossers. “Many of our guys choose to arm themselves with legal firearms. We do obey the law. We’re not hunters, and we’re not killers. We’re observers.” NSM members, he said, might bring side arms and rifles, “and pepper spray for wild animals. I personally work with a sniper to improve my marksmanship. Not to hunt or hurt, but for self-protection. Those drug smugglers would just shoot us and move on if we weren’t prepared.”What really seemed to distress Hall, a father of several small children, was that American kids couldn’t play on American soil. “Children don’t play at the border. There are streams and hills, but you’ll never see kids playing. People out there are sick of having their cars stolen or broken into, their water tanks drained or their livestock killed.” He displayed no fear. “We don’t do anything illegal, we just make our presence known. We have no fear of them. If we see someone we make the call—an anonymous call—and let the authorities know. They usually just run back south when they see us.”Hall’s aim was to have groups on border 24/7—something a suffering economy was making more possible: “Some of our upper-middle-class members won't go to the border, but they are great donors.” Hall—like many white supremacist leaders and spokespeople—wouldn’t divulge how many members he had, or his budget, but insisted both were growing. “Last month we got huge deposits into our treasury, lots of $100 checks. The police have tried to close us down so many times. We couldn’t be doing what we’re doing without donors.”The real action, he said, came from the unemployed. “If we have a guy that’s laid off he’ll say, 'Hey, let’s go to the border for a few days.’ But most of us in the group work full time, and have to take vacation time to do this. I’ll tell you there—the worse the economy gets, the more people are available, and the more they want to see alternatives.”Eve Conant is a Newsweek staff reporter covering immigration, politics, social and culture issues.";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:04";1500
26;"Add to the growing list of candidates considering a bid for the GOP presidential nomination in 2012 America’s most famous white-power advocate: David Duke.A former grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan, member of the Louisiana House of Representatives and Republican executive-committee chairman in his district until 2000, Duke has a significant following online. His videos go viral. This month, he’s launching a tour of 25 states to explore how much support he can garner for a potential presidential bid. He hasn’t considered running for serious office since the early '90s, when he won nearly 40 percent of the vote in his bid for Louisiana governor. But like many “white civil rights advocates,” as he describes himself to The Daily Beast, 2012 is already shaping up to be a pivotal year.Former (and current) Neo Nazis, Ku Klux Klan members, neo-Confederates, and other representatives of the many wings of the “white nationalist” movement are starting to file paperwork and print campaign literature for offices large and small, pointing to rising unemployment, four years with an African-American president, and rampant illegal immigration as part of a growing mound of evidence that white people need to take a stand.Most aren’t winning—not yet. But they’re drawing levels of support that surprise and alarm groups that keep tabs on the white-power movement (members prefer the terms “racial realist” or “white nationalist”). In May, the National Socialist Movement’s Jeff Hall hit national headlines in a bizarre tragedy: his murder, allegedly at the hands of his 10-year-old son. But before his death, he had campaigned for a low-level water board position in Riverside, California. The swastika-wearing plumber who patrolled the U.S. border paramilitary-style walked away with almost 30 percent of his community’s vote. “That’s a sizable amount of the vote for a person running openly as a Neo Nazi,” says Marilyn Mayo, co-director of the Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism.  While Hall’s political future—and life—has been cut short, Mayo points out that we should expect more white supremacist hopefuls next year.Mayo and others date the current spike to 2008, and the election of the country’s first African-American president (an historic marker accompanied by a surge in the percentage of U.S. children born to minorities in 2008—48 percent, compared to 37 percent in 1990). “The immediate reaction after Obama was elected was of rage. They feel if a black man can get elected to office, why can’t someone who represents white interests?” Just a few weeks after Obama’s election, Duke gathered followers in Memphis to expressly strategize what to do next. The solution? If you can’t beat ‘em, join ‘em. What followed in 2010, say extremism watchers, was the biggest electoral push by white supremacists in years. “We’ve seen increasing numbers of white supremacists and others on the radical right running for electoral office for several years now and we likely had more in the last election than in any other in recent memory,” says Mark Potok of the Southern Poverty Law Center. “Although extremely few of these people are elected, especially if their views become known during the campaign, the fact that there are so many openly running for public office reflects the growth of white nationalism over the last 10 years.”Potok’s group tracked 23 candidates in 2010 with radical right-wing views, nine of whom they described as white supremacists or white nationalists. (The others had extreme immigration and world-conspiracy views but did not specifically have links to white organizations.) One candidate, the neo-Confederate Loy Mauch, won a seat in the Arkansas House of Representatives, and another, James C. Russell, who has denounced interracial marriage, garnered 37 percent of the vote in his quest for the New York House of Representatives. Some candidates benefited from a new umbrella organization—the A3P, or American Third Position—which was launched in 2010 by a handful of wonkish-looking professors and corporate lawyers to, as they wrote in their mission statement, “represent the political interests of White Americans.” One of their political hopefuls, Atlee Yarrow, who has filed paperwork to run for Florida governor in 2014, says the Southern Poverty Law Center has listed A3P as a hate group “but it has open membership that mirrors the NAACP. They can have identity politics, but if white people do, it’s considered racist.”Disappointed with Ron and Rand Paul and other leaders who they feel are close, but not close enough, to their views—the A3P has fielded candidates like Harry Bertram, who ran for the West Virginia board of education last fall, pulling down 14 percent of the vote. He’s now angling for governor. “My platform is conservative like the Tea Party but more racialist inclined,” Bertram says. Another A3P candidate won 11 percent of the vote in a recent run for a seat in the New Hampshire House of Representatives. Those numbers are small, but hardly laughable, especially for a new group explicitly running on a white-interest ticket. “We’re just beginning,” says board member Jamie Kelso, who says the group’s platform includes a complete moratorium on immigration. “But we’re filling a void.”Some candidates for 2012 are already filling paperwork. “White people need to wake up to the fact that we’re becoming a minority in our country,” says John Abarr, a 41-year-old former organizer for the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, has filed to begin raising money for Montana’s lone U.S. House seat.  He’s not worried that the Republican Party isn’t backing him: “I don’t think public opinion is all that much against us. Montanans are independent thinkers.” His key platform? Abolish the Fed, raise the military age to 21 to stop what he calls the “barbaric” practice of sending teenagers to war, end the death penalty, legalize marijuana (he doesn’t smoke or drink himself), establish a 5 percent flat tax, and help whites by fighting entitlements (like affirmative action and immigration) that he says favor minorities. He describes the Klan as a Christian, white civil-rights organization, and glosses over the brutality that has earned the group its bad name. “I can’t agree with lynching anybody for any reason, but that was a different time in our history.” He adds: “We already have a black president, and I’m not sure when we’ll have a white president elected again.”Another self-described blue-collar, pro-white candidate is The Nationalist Party of America’s Billy Roper. After a long career in neo-Nazi organizations and failing spectacularly in his bid for Arkansas governor in 2010, Roper and a fellow “White Aryan” veep candidate are promising on their 2012 website to continue the fight “for the civil rights of Americans of European ancestry.” Now supported by the A3P, he ran as a write-in candidate for governor, he says, to learn the ropes for 2012. He’s faced censorship, and has come to see it as a political plus. “Let’s just say Facebook wasn’t founded by the Irish. Hundreds of white nationalists like myself have had our pages and profiles deleted, disabled, or frozen. It teaches newcomers that censorship really does exist, and just hardens our resolve.”One key precinct for politically minded white-rights activists: Stormfront, the nation’s largest white-supremacist website, where thousands of “racial realists” talk about everything from homeschooling and the news to uniting into a single party.  Stormfront founder and radio host Don Black tells The Daily Beast the strategy is to start from the ground up, “where we have a chance of winning. It’s impossible to get into the Senate or Congress but state legislatures or smaller offices can work.” Black says the Tea Party’s influence spurred hopes among his ideological soulmates—but that the initial excitement has given way to a realpolitik sense that the Stormfront crowd will have to go it alone. “Many of our people are involved in the Tea Party,” says Black. “But much of their leadership is skittish when it comes to talking about racial realities. The Tea Party is a healthy movement but many are too conditioned to run like scared rabbits when called racists.”No office is too small. The Neo-Nazi National Socialist Movement’s “Sergeant” Harriet Paletti in Wisconsin, a bubbly working mom with three kids, only takes off her swastika when she’s at work.  She’ll be running for her district’s alderman position in 2012 and has just sent in her résumé to the mayor of New Berlin, hoping to fill a seat on either the Crime Prevention Committee, Police and Fire Commission, or the Parks and Recreation Board. “These are volunteer positions which of course will boost my political résumé when I begin my campaign in late 2012.” If and when elected, she says she’ll represent everyone in her mostly white district, regardless of color. She just doesn’t believe in intermingling in private life, part of what she calls a “natural law of self segregation.”Another NSM leader, Brian Culpepper, says his chapter in Tennessee may openly field a candidate for the state and U.S. House of Representatives. Culpepper describes himself as a “realist,” saying he prefers sneaking candidates into office under the radar rather than openly flouting the white-rights agenda. The same is true of the United Klans of Tennessee, which says it has several mayors and county commissioners serving who do not openly identify as Klan members. “We insert ourselves into the infrastructure of other established parties due to the bias against us and the difficulty of third parties getting ballot access,” says Culpepper. Unlike other Neo-Nazis in his group, these ones are not on NSM rosters and “have hair, no ink, no piercings, and increasingly are college-degreed” says Culpepper, who says he is also a “suit and tie” guy and does not favor bomber jackets. Some Neo-Nazis have also quietly been joining national campaigns and offices to start sharpening their political teeth, he claims.  “We have people working with the most recent incoming class of freshmen in the House,” says Culpepper. “And they don’t even know it.”nullA Duke candidacy could have a galvanizing effect. He has been living in Europe in recent years, but maintains a high profile—and stokes his fan base--online. Duke says there is nothing wrong with a white political bloc. “I have no hatred of anyone,” Duke says. “Just a love of my heritage and values.”";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:04";1501
27;"A Los Angeles County judge ruled Monday that four social workers should stand trial on child abuse and other charges in the death of an 8-year-old Palmdale boy they were assigned to protect, allowing prosecutors to push ahead with a case that has sent a chill through the ranks of child protection workers nationwide.Superior Court Judge Mary Lou Villar said that “red flags were everywhere” during the months before Gabriel Fernandez died and that the social workers mishandled evidence of escalating abuse and failed to file timely reports on what was happening in the boy’s home before he was allegedly killed by his mother and her boyfriend in 2013. The judge said the workers’ conduct amounted to criminal negligence.“[Gabriel’s mom] was in the system — that was a red flag, he missed school...had injuries, and his teacher called,” Villar said. “All of this shows that the mother was uncooperative and the parties should have known at that time something was wrong.”Some defendants broke down in tears after Villar announced that the case would move forward. One of them, Patricia Clement, placed her head in her hands in disbelief.“When the judge announced it, I wanted to throw up,” she said later.L.A. sheriff's deputies disciplined after horrific torture death of 8-year-old boy »Her attorney, Shelly Albert, expressed shock at the judge's ruling.“This is outrageous and unprecedented. My client, all of them, they did what they were supposed to do,” she said.Gabriel died after months of torture and abuse, prosecutors say. The boy’s mother and her boyfriend are awaiting trial on capital murder charges and have pleaded not guilty.But the case took a highly unusual turn last year when prosecutors accused the four former Department of Children and Family Services employees of felony child abuse and falsifying public records.Prosecutors alleged that caseworkers Clement and Stefanie Rodriguez and supervisors Kevin Bom and Gregory Merritt ignored evidence of repeated abuse and minimized Gabriel’s injuries. They each face up to 10 years in prison if convicted.The case marked the first time in Los Angeles that county social workers faced criminal charges in performing their duties, prosecutors said, and is one of only a handful of such cases filed nationwide in recent decades. The decision by Los Angeles County Dist. Atty. Jackie Lacey to prosecute the employees surprised many child protection experts, who have expressed fear that the decision could hamper efforts to recruit social workers for public sector jobs.The standard of proof to hold a defendant to answer at a preliminary hearing is far less than the beyond-a-reasonable-doubt threshold required to convict someone at a trial. Still, Monday’s decision by Villar will raise alarm among child social workers, many of whom are already dealing with increased public scrutiny and high case volumes, experts said. “It could have a real chilling effect on the desire to become a child social worker,” said Rebecca Gonzales, director of government relations for the National Assn. of Social Workers’ California chapter. “It is a devastating case for social workers all over the nation and especially in L.A. County.”Similar cases brought by prosecutors elsewhere have usually resulted in convictions of less serious charges or been thrown out of court. In January, a judge dismissed felony charges against two Michigan social workers accused of involuntary manslaughter after the killing of a 3-year-old boy they had been supervising. In 2013, prosecutors allowed a New York social worker and his supervisor who had been charged with criminally negligent homicide to plead guilty to misdemeanors in connection with the death of a 4-year-old girl who had allegedly been beaten and starved to death by her mother. Monday’s ruling in Los Angeles came after a preliminary hearing in which Gabriel’s first-grade teacher and other witnesses testified about their mounting concern over signs of physical abuse — facial bruises, scabs, missing tufts of hair, busted lips — and alarm that their calls to the caseworkers went unheeded.Summerwind Elementary School teacher Jennifer Garcia said in the months before Gabriel’s death, she repeatedly reported to county child service workers new signs of abuse that prosecutors say came at the hands of his mother, Pearl Fernandez, and her boyfriend, Isauro Aguirre.A few weeks into the 2012-13 school year, Garcia saw a facial bruise the size of a half-dollar on the boy and he revealed he was beaten with a belt buckle, drawing blood, she said. She immediately called a county child abuse hotline and received a call back from social worker Rodriguez, she testified.In January 2013, Garcia said, Gabriel came to school with swollen eyes and a pockmarked face. At first, he said he had fallen, but he then told her, “My mom shot me in the face with a BB gun,” she testified.On two occasions, she testified, a fearful Gabriel asked, “Can you call that lady?” — referring to the county social worker he knew she had been calling. Garcia said she began to lose confidence in child protective services as months passed and Gabriel remained with his mother.“I kind of started to feel nothing was happening,” she testified.At some point, Clement took over the case from Rodriguez.In May 2013, paramedics arrived at the boy’s Palmdale home to find Gabriel not breathing. His skull was cracked, three ribs were broken and his skin was bruised and burned. He had BB pellets embedded in his lung and groin. Two teeth had been knocked out.An internal DCFS investigator, Jessica Brown, testified that Clement underrated the danger Gabriel faced while she completed an assessment of his case. Brown testified that Clement had wrongly documented the facts in her assessment, omitting his mother's well-documented mental health problems. As a result, the assessment concluded he was at “high risk” instead of “very high risk.”Brown told the court that Clement's supervisor, Merritt, had signed off on the decision to end his unit’s supervision of the child in April 2013, a month before his death.Deputy Dist. Atty. Ana Maria Lopez argued on Monday that the social workers ignored obvious signs that the abuse was escalating and that they had plenty of chances to remove the boy from his home or to bring his mother to court. The workers, she said, were supposed to provide a “safety net” for Gabriel and their supervisors were in a “leadership position” and should have done more.Defense attorneys denied there was any wrongdoing and suggested that the escalation of violence occurred after the case was closed and the family was no longer under their clients’ supervision. According to testimony of a detective assigned to the case, Gabriel’s brother said the boy was shot with metal BBs and had his teeth knocked out in the weeks before his death, and alleged violence at the hands of Aguirre increased after he thought Gabriel had taken a knife and a credit card.Albert, Clement’s attorney, asserted that the four social workers are the target of selective prosecution and that other social workers and mandated reporters, including sheriff’s deputies who responded to abuse reports, are being given a pass. Garcia, the boy’s teacher, said she never spoke directly with the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department.Several deputies who went to the home to conduct welfare checks have been disciplined, according to sheriff’s officials. None, officials said, has been fired or faced prosecution.In their final statements to the judge on Monday, defense attorneys argued that there was no evidence that their clients falsified any documents or could have anticipated that Gabriel would be killed.Jim Barnes, Merritt’s attorney, noted that Sheriff’s Deputy Jonathan Livingston had visited the boy’s home a month before his death and concluded that there was no child abuse going on. He said his client had been assigned to oversee multiple teams not just in Palmdale but also Lancaster and depended on what his social workers were telling him about their cases.“He was overworked and understaffed,” Barnes said.Rodriguez’s lawyer, Lance M. Filer, said the social worker properly investigated allegations but did not see any visible injuries on the boy.“She did what she was supposed to do,” he said.melissa.etehad@latimes.comrichard.winton@latimes.comFor more Southern California news, follow us on Twitter: @melissaetehad and @lacrimesALSORiverside mother accused of abandoning child at store may have mental health issues, judge saysSurveillance video shows man trying to kidnap teen as she walks to school in North HollywoodInglewood police find autistic man who disappeared after running Los Angeles MarathonUPDATES:5:40 p.m.: This story was updated with a comment from Gonzales and background about other cases against social workers across the country.3:40 p.m.: This story was updated with additional details from Monday’s court hearing.11:28 a.m.: This story was updated with comments from Clement and her attorney as well as details from the court hearing.This article was originally published at 10:56 a.m.";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:08";1502
28;"Prince Harry has frequently invoked his mother's memory in his public speeches - most recently he said he hoped Diana would be 'proud of' him for a project he is working on with his charity Sentebale in Lesotho, and speculated she may be drawing up plans for the playground in heaven - and now he has strengthened his links with Halo Trust, the anti-landmine charity famously backed by Diana.The prince, 28, is to become patron of the HALO Trust’s 25th anniversary appeal to help it raise funds to continue its work clearing minefields in Afghanistan and other countries.Harry has been involved with HALO (Hazardous Areas Life-support Organisation) for several years and in 2010 visited minefields in Mozambique to meet amputees and see the effect landmines have on some of the world’s poorest people.On one of Diana's last public engagements before her death she walked through a minefield being cleared by HALO in Angola in a clear plastic blast-resistant mask.The picture became one of the most celebrated anti-landmine images.Guy Willoughby, HALO’s chief executive, told The Evening Standard: “Many people don’t realise that wars might be over, but people are still being killed and maimed by landmines every day — there were more than 4,000 victims of landmines in 2011.”";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:10";1503
29;"Meghan Markle, the American actress who has been dating Prince Harry for close on a year now, and is increasingly seen as a likely royal bride, has long been involved in human-rights advocacy.At the age of 11, as she told a United Nations conference in a highly watchable speech, she was so outraged by a detergent advert that boasted that “women all over America were fighting greasy pots and pans” with the branded liquid that she wrote to powerhouse lawyer Gloria Allred and first lady Hillary Clinton. Markle ended up on a local news channel, and, a month later, as a result of the controversy, Procter &amp; Gamble changed the tagline of the product to “People all over America…”At 15 she worked in soup kitchens and the actress has continued to do a huge amount of volunteering. She is now an ambassador for the global development charity World Vision Canada, and she traveled to Rwanda last year and to slums in the Indian cities of Delhi and Mumbai this year to raise awareness of the plight of females in extreme poverty, and the ways in which they can be helped by better education and health-care policies.As part of this new campaign, Markle, 35, has written an extensive essay in Time magazine, entitled How Periods Affect Potential on the effect that the stigmatization of menstruation has on young women around the world.She writes: “One hundred and thirteen million adolescent girls between the ages of 12-14 in India alone are at risk of dropping out of school because of the stigma surrounding menstrual health.“During my time in the field, many girls shared that they feel embarrassed to go to school during their periods, ill equipped with rags instead of pads, unable to participate in sports, and without bathrooms available to care for themselves, they often opt to drop out of school entirely.“All of these factors perpetuate the cycle of poverty and stunt a young girl’s dream for a more prolific future.”As The Daily Beast commented at the time, watching Meghan Markle’s trip to India unfold on social and mainstream media, it was hard not to be impressed by the remarkable positive attention she attracted to a tough cause.Seeking to break down ancient taboos against menstruation—as Markle writes, “Many girls believe their bodies are purging evil spirits”—is a humanitarian calling about as far outside the traditional royal charitable comfort zone as can be imagined.For many decades, the royals tended to focus on unimpeachably “safe” charities: guide dogs, wild birds, architecture, the countryside, that sort of thing.They still do, of course, but the landscape was changed irrevocably when Diana held the hand on camera of a man dying from AIDS in 1991.But there is an important difference between Diana and Meghan.Meghan knows exactly what she is doing, but Diana was an ingénue; she said subsequently that she never planned to make a huge statement by holding the man’s hand, it was simply her natural human reaction to a fellow human’s plight.Nonetheless, Diana’s simple gesture became a hugely political signifier at a time when HIV patients routinely kept their identities secret for fear of being victimized or hounded out of their communities.But it was not until after Diana had divorced Prince Charles and dropped her HRH title that she was able to turn to the most political of all her causes—the campaign to ban landmines.It was a hugely contentious campaign as the multibillion-dollar British defense industry—well-baked in to the establishment—was a huge producer of the weapons.Just days before she died, she gave an interview to a French newspaper in which she praised the Blair government’s support for the campaign against land mines and criticized the Conservative government of former British Prime Minister John Major for its unhelpful stance on the issue.National outrage was duly whipped up about her “interference” in politics, but her death on Aug. 31, 1997, brought that criticism to an abrupt end.Certainly, Meghan’s political advocacy is part of what attracts Harry to Meghan. Harry has previously said that he is seeking to perpetuate and continue his mother’s work.Meghan is clearly not the the kind of person to be told to pipe down, and it is interesting to note that in the very first report of the relationship, the established royal reporter Camilla Tominey quoted a source saying: “Harry loves to hear about Meghan’s humanitarian work and he thinks she’s doing a fantastic job.”It is becoming increasingly tempting to imagine how we might be on the cusp of gaining a new political Princess of the United Kingdom.";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:10";1504
30;"“I know I’ve got a lot of my mother in me. I am doing a lot of things that she would probably do.”It was nothing short of remarkable for Prince Harry’s friends to read that he had publicly uttered those words in an interview given to the US tabloid magazine People to promote the Invictus Games, which start this weekend.Harry, they say, spent much of his teenage years so utterly traumatized by the death of his mother that he would never even mention her, let alone invoke her memory.Harry kept a photograph of Diana on his desk, according to contemporaries at Eton, but didn’t talk about his mom openly. And no-one else would have brought it up. It wouldn’t be the kind of thing you’d raise.It has never been publicly disclosed whether Harry received formal psychological support at Eton, but the school does have a full-time in-house child psychiatrist, and, like all children experiencing trauma there, Harry would certainly have been offered such help.If he did avail himself of therapy, it did not appear for many years to have helped much.Harry, who cut a pitiful sight walking behind his mother’s coffin at the age of 12 in front of a global audience, spent most of his twenties apparently trying to do all he could to quash the memories of Diana with copious quantities of alcohol.He also found relief in the drill of army life and front line fighting (an experience which, he recently revealed, has left him, like many other former soldiers, suffering flashbacks).If the army has been a constant of royal growing up, a fondness for alcohol has also been a wearyingly familiar feature of life in both the Windsor and Spencer family histories—the Queen Mother, Princess Margaret and Diana’s father Johnny are some of the better-known casualties—and on several occasions Harry’s friends had reason to fear that he was going down the same route as some of his troubled ancestors.The problem was that after the alcohol, Harry could, like many young men, become bolshy and unpredictable and sometimes, after drinking bouts, there came trouble: fights with photographers, strip-billiards with random blondes, and a familiarity with Gloucestershire’s posh druggy set at the local boozers such as the Rattlebone Inn, where, as Harry admitted to his father, he smoked marijuana.Now however, sources say that Harry has cut back on the booze and is drinking significantly less, as he faces up to the responsibilities of his position.He is clearly determined to honor the memory of his revered and idolized mother not just through his charity work but also in his private life.That doesn’t mean sobriety (and the sobriety with gritted teeth of the kind endured by Princess Margaret at the end of her life would hardly be a great encouragement to follow that path, although Prince Andrew provides, whatever his other faults, a realistic example of teetotal living)—but it does mean cutting out the all-nighters.Don’t expect to see Harry dancing with his shirt off at any festivals this year.Of course, Harry has spoken about his mother before, but the terms in which he has been speaking about her in recent days are strikingly mature and confident.
“All I want to do is make my mother incredibly proud,” he told People magazine, “That’s all I’ve ever wanted to do.”“When she died, there was a gaping hole, not just for us but also for a huge amount of people across the world.”He had clearly thought about what he was going to say ahead of the interview, and on Wednesday evening he raised Diana’s memory again in another moving tribute.He was giving a speech after a polo match, a fundraiser for Sentebale, a charity he co-founded to help children affected by Lesotho’s HIV/AIDS epidemic, now expanding into Botswana.He said: “12 years ago I made my first visit to Lesotho hosted by Prince Seeiso. “As we travelled across the country I was amazed by it’s beauty but I was also struck by the many children that I met who lives had been torn apart by the loss of one or both parents to AIDS related illnesses. “Having lost my own mother seven years before I felt a profound connection to these children. In spite of the obvious differences in our lives we shared the loss of a parent and that ever present emptiness that could never be filled.”The words sounded completely natural. The ring of authenticity was unmistakable. It would be hard to imagine William saying the same thing into a microphone in a crowded public room.That may be because, as a former confidante of Princess Diana, Lady Colin Campbell, tells the Daily Beast: “Harry has inherited many of Diana’s virtues while William has certainly inherited one of her vices, in that he is very self-willed.“But Harry leads with the heart just like Diana did, and he has a natural propensity towards being affectionate and generous, and has that same ability to connect on a human level.”Christopher Andersen, author of the new best seller, Game of Crowns, who has been covering the royals for several decades concurs, saying, “Diana’s influence is so much more noticeable in Harry than it is in William.“While William has retreated into formality, Harry is an envelope-pusher in the way that she was, and he has that rebel quality that Diana had and William does not have.”Another example of Harry’s more emotional style of communicating came at the Sentebale dinner, when, reflecting on the fact that ‘Sentebale’ means ‘forget me not’, he told his audience, “Incidentally I found out today that forget-me-nots were my mother’s favorite flower growing up, so that’s a very nice thing for me anyway.”Harry reportedly was told the information about his mother’s floral preferences by “a member of the royal family” earlier in the day, and although he stopped short of implying Diana’s spirit was somehow steering him, there was a sense in his words that the choice of name for his charity was more than mere coincidence.Again, it would be hard to imagine William publicly channeling Diana’s memory in such an emotional way.Andersen suggests that William and Harry’s childhood roles may have as much to do with the brothers’ different characters as genetics.“Harry was not having to play that role of peacemaker between his parents. And you see that, as a result, William is cautious. William is fundamentally a traditionalist but Harry likes nothing more than throwing convention to the winds. In that sense he really is Diana’s son.”Andersen suspects however, that, ironically enough, had Diana survived she would have been a calming influence on her son.“A mother-son bond is so special, and I have no doubt that were she alive today she would be the one person capable of reining him in and making him toe the line. Her personality and her attitudes would have changed. She would have been able to guide him and help him avoid some of those PR gaffes.”";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:10";1505
31;"The Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department has collected the names of about 300 deputies who have a history of past misconduct — such as domestic violence, theft, bribery and brutality — that could damage their credibility if they testify in court.Sheriff Jim McDonnell wants to send the names to prosecutors, who can decide whether to add them to an internal database that tracks problem officers in case the information needs to be disclosed to defendants in criminal trials.  But McDonnell’s move has set off a heated battle that pits the privacy rights of officers against efforts by law enforcement agencies to be more transparent.The union that represents rank-and-file deputies strongly opposes providing the names to prosecutors and has taken the department to court. The Assn. for Los Angeles Deputy Sheriffs argues that the disclosure would violate state laws protecting officer personnel files and draw unfair scrutiny on deputies whose mistakes might have happened long ago.An appeals court last week sided with the union, temporarily blocking the Sheriff’s Department from sending names to the district attorney’s office. The legal battle is being closely watched by other law enforcement agencies, including the Los Angeles Police Department, which is considering whether to adopt the same practice, said Cmdr. Stuart Maislin, who heads the LAPD’s internal affairs group.Departments in at least a dozen counties, such as San Francisco and Sacramento, regularly send prosecutors the names of problem officers. Some, including agencies in San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara and Ventura have done so for well over a decade. The approach has recently earned praise from the state’s Supreme Court and gained new attention at a time of increasing demands for police accountability nationwide.At stake is an issue fundamental to the criminal justice system: the obligation of prosecutors to hand over evidence that could help the defense, including information that could undermine an officer’s credibility. Under the landmark 1963 U.S. Supreme Court ruling in Brady vs. Maryland, prosecutors must turn over exculpatory evidence to defendants. Failing to disclose such evidence can result in faulty convictions.Jerry Coleman, a special assistant district attorney in San Francisco County who teaches prosecutorial ethics at the University of San Francisco School of Law, said the ripple effects of such a failure can spread well beyond the courtroom.“They affect not just our relations with police but our relations with victims, and the integrity of the criminal justice system entirely, and the public’s sense of honesty in the proceedings,” he said.But finding out whether an officer has a history of dishonesty or other misconduct is not easy.California has some of the strictest protections on law enforcement officer records in the country. Discipline hearings, personnel files and even the names of officers accused in internal affairs investigations are secret. Prosecutors — and defense attorneys — require a special court order to glean even basic information from an officer’s personnel file. “That gives [officers] the sense that these are the most private of secrets,” Coleman said.Last year, Contra Costa prosecutors asked courts to throw out convictions in 15 cases after discovering that the Pittsburg Police Department had withheld information about two officers accused of writing police reports that failed to disclose they used force on suspects. The Contra Costa County district attorney’s office, which has long had an informal agreement with area police departments to notify prosecutors about problem officers, is now trying to formalize that policy in writing, said Deputy Dist. Atty. Steven Bolen.At issue is whether it’s up to police departments to tip off prosecutors about officers who have a history of misconduct or whether prosecutors are supposed to find out about problem officers on their own.The Los Angeles district attorney’s office, which does not have access to police discipline files, learns about potential misconduct from prosecutors who complain about wrongdoing, from law enforcement agencies when they present criminal cases in which officers are suspects and from news articles, D.A. spokesman Greg Risling said in e-mails.Risling declined to comment on the sheriff’s list and would not make anyone in the district attorney’s office available to answer questions about how prosecutors learn about police misconduct.A lawyer for the deputies’ union contends that the district attorney’s office would refuse to accept the names of deputies with disciplinary histories.She pointed to a declaration filed in court this month by ALADS in which Jason Lustig, the prosecutor in charge of handling police misconduct evidence for the district attorney, stated his office “actively declines to accept information from a peace officer personnel file if the information is offered by a law enforcement agency without the express permission of the involved officer.”Lustig also said there is no policy or practice by which any local law enforcement agency notifies his office of potential officer misconduct.But Assistant Sheriff Todd Rogers said he believes the Sheriff’s Department has “a clear constitutional obligation to disclose” to the D.A. the names of deputies with potential credibility issues.“This is consistent with the sheriff’s commitment to transparency,” he said.In 2015, he noted, the state Supreme Court praised San Francisco police for notifying local prosecutors about officers who had problematic histories. And soon afterward, the attorney general’s office advised the California Highway Patrol that doing so was legal. In October, the Sheriff’s Department sent letters to about 300 deputies warning them that their personnel files contained evidence of “moral turpitude.” The letters said such acts could include accepting bribes or gifts, misappropriating property, tampering with evidence, lying, obstructing investigations, falsifying records, using unreasonable force, discriminatory harassment and family violence. Rogers said it was possible that some of the offenses didn’t apply to any current deputies on the department.The targeted group represents about 3% of the department’s roughly 9,100 deputies. In the letters, the department said the list would include only deputies found guilty of wrongdoing by internal investigators. The agency would send just the deputies’ names, not their entire personnel files, the letters said.While the officers’ names aren’t intended to become public, their presence on a list kept by prosecutors means deputies could be one step closer to having their disciplinary files scrutinized by a judge and having their police work called into question during a court proceeding.In its legal action, the deputies’ union filed a redacted copy of one of the letters, which also warned that deputies could be given new job duties to limit their liability. The letters urged them to use their own video and audio recording devices in interactions with the public.“It was clear to me that anybody receiving this letter would be concerned,” Rogers said. “We understand that and we’re gonna be sensitive to that.”The department denied a public records request sent by The Times for unredacted copies of the letters, citing, among other rules, peace officer confidentiality laws.About 15 management-level employees up to the rank of lieutenant also received the warning notices, according to the L.A. County Professional Peace Officers Assn., which represents higher-level department staff. That union filed an unfair labor practices complaint on behalf of its members, said Lt. Brian Moriguchi, the association’s president.The organization is not joining the lawsuit; its members are represented by ALADS in the case because the misconduct occurred long ago when they were working as deputies, Moriguchi said.ALADS’ president, Det. Ron Hernandez, said sending a list of deputies’ names to prosecutors would be an unfair additional punishment on top of the internal discipline deputies already experienced. Hernandez said lumping deputies together on a so-called “Brady List” might give the impression that they all committed gross misconduct, whereas some of the wrongdoing was minor.“We’re not trying to hide anything that’s gone on in the past. The fact of the matter is, nobody wants to be wrongly accused of anything. That applies to everyone else in the world, so it should apply to deputies too,” he said.Elizabeth Gibbons, an attorney for ALADS, said relevant information in an officer’s personnel file, if it must be reviewed by a judge, should be considered on a case-by-case basis.Gibbons provided an example that if a deputy with an otherwise spotless reputation were found to have fibbed about what time he came into work one morning, it shouldn’t disqualify him from testifying years later in an unrelated matter, such as an embezzlement investigation.“We shouldn’t try to cut off their heads for the rest of their lives,” she said.Superior Court Judge James Chalfant ruled last month that the Sheriff’s Department could give the D.A.’s office the names of problem officers only when there’s a pending case in which that officer might testify.“The disclosure of a deputy’s name in conjunction with this list will create a negative stigma for the deputy,” Chalfant wrote in his decision. But ALADS contested that ruling, asking for a stricter prohibition. On Wednesday, a two-judge appellate court panel granted the union’s request to put a temporary hold on any transmission of names, even in pending cases.“It would not surprise me if this case eventually winds up in the California Supreme Court,” said the Sheriff’s Department’s lawyer, Geoffrey Sheldon.To read the article in Spanish, click heremaya.lau@latimes.comTwitter: @mayalauMORE LOCAL NEWSNearly 5,000 remain without power from storm-related outages, DWP saysWhat's Measure S? A breakdown of the ballot measure to restrict developmentGovernment severely misjudged strength of Oroville emergency spillway, sparking a crisis""I’m a professional liar,"" key witness against Robert Durst once told prosecutors in recorded call";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:18";1506
32;"Los Angeles voters’ overwhelming approval of a $1.2-billion bond measure to build housing for the chronically homeless left city officials facing the question Wednesday of how to show progress on a long-term solution to the region’s intractable street homeless problem.With all precincts reporting, Measure HHH had secured 76% of the vote, well above the 66.66% threshold needed to pass.After years of ineffective efforts to stem tent encampments that now are spread across the city, the bond measure is an ambitious approach to achieve a lasting solution, but won’t produce immediate effects.Live U.S. election results | Live California election resultsIt is designed to spur the construction of about 1,000 apartment units a year over 10 years. The time required to acquire land, obtain approvals and build the units means that the earliest any would be ready for tenants is likely to be three to five years from now.Yet, even before the votes were counted Tuesday night, supporters of the measure acknowledged the importance of producing results that voters can see.“We need to seize this opportunity to make good things happen,” Los Angeles County Supervisor Mark Ridley-Thomas said at a victory party Tuesday night. “It is very, very important that we do this work in a way that the voters of the city feel they have done something good and going forward they will be rewarded by our results.”In the hope of speeding up the five-year development timeline, city officials are offering 12 city-owned parcels for potential development.""We're going to try to cut it in half,"" City Administrative Officer Miguel Santana said Wednesday.Forty-nine developers have responded to the city’s request for proposals to use the parcels.Santana said those who have been accepted as qualified developers will be announced next week. The report will also include decisions on which of the parcels are suitable for apartment construction.The list will be used to request bids, probably early next year.The California Community Foundation, a major funder of the Proposition HHH campaign, is working with several developers to identify projects they can have ready to apply for funding, said Ann Sewill, the agency’s vice president for housing and economic opportunity.Among them is PATH, a statewide organization that provides homeless services and develops housing.While not committing to a specific timeline, PATH’s chief executive, Joel John Roberts, said projects are in the pipeline.“PATH, as well as other housing agencies, have already lined up potential housing developments where the planning process could begin quickly,"" Roberts said Wednesday.Meanwhile, the city has other initiatives in the works to make a more immediate dent.Those include setting aside funds to place homeless people into what is called rapid rehousing and increase the number of outreach teams in the city.“Within the next three to six months, with all the work we’ve done, we will see an improvement,” said City Councilman Jose Huizar, who represents skid row, the biggest concentration of homeless people in the nation. “And in two years … we’ll see a significant reduction in people living in the streets.”Officials will still have to persuade neighborhoods to accept homeless housing sites, and opposition had already risen against proposed locations in Venice.The measure approved Tuesday would repay the $1.2-billion bond with a new property tax averaging just under $10 for each $100,000 in assessed valuation over 29 years.The owner of a $1-million property would pay, on average, $96 every year. The owner of a home with a median assessed value would pay about $32 a year.  The housing will be reserved for the most medically vulnerable of the homeless, and will follow a low-barrier Housing First model, providing permanent apartments with counseling and other services for residents to work on addiction and mental health issues. The city is negotiating with Los Angeles County over a commitment to provide those services. Santana said he hopes the agreement will be signed this month.To pay for the services and other measures to get homeless people off the streets sooner, the county Board of Supervisors is expected next month to place a quarter-cent sales tax increase on the March ballot.Whether the the sales tax succeeds or fails, the county will follow through with its commitment, using existing budgets of county agencies, said Phil Ansell, head of the county’s homeless initiative.Studies have shown that money spent on housing for chronically homeless people saves local government money that would be spent on ambulance, emergency room and police services for very sick people living in the streets.“It’s one of the few investments in social problems that research — not conjecture not anecdote — shows will lead to an increase in people housed, a decrease in suffering and savings for the taxpayers,”said Philip Mangano, the former U.S. “homelessness czar” under President George W. Bush  . “That’s a trifecta you can’t get at Santa Anita.”The spread of homeless encampments over the past two years proved to be a potent political issue for officials, who fielded angry calls and protests from residents in communities including Pacific Palisades, Venice and Highland Park. Huizar, however, said polling showed the voters were anxious not just to get rid of the tents and lean-tos but to relieve the suffering of those who live in them. “This is coming from a humanitarian point of view, it’s people wanting to help others,” Huizar said. “We earned our wings tonight,” Councilman Marqueece Harris-Dawson said at a Proposition HHH campaign party Tuesday night. “We completely lived up to the title City of Angels.”ALSOBid to force porn actors to wear condoms in adult films failsDeath penalty measures: Voters say no to repealing it, yes to speeding it upCalifornia voters approve gun control measure Proposition 63UPDATES:2:55 p.m.: This article was updated with additional reporting about plans to implement the measure and comments from county, city and nonprofit homeless assistance agency officials.This article was originally posted at 9:25 a.m.";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:19";1507
33;"A quarter-cent sales tax increase in Los Angeles County to fund anti-homelessness measures appeared to earn  the two-thirds majority needed for passage early Wednesday, with 100% of county precincts reporting.Measure H would generate about $355 million annually for homeless programs over 10 years, backers say. The tax increase would raise the sales tax rate to 9% across most of Los Angeles County and up to 10% in a few communities.It would be the second phase of a two-step fundraising strategy developed by the city and county. Los Angeles city voters approved a $1.2-billion bond measure in November to provide supplemental funding for 10,000 units of permanent housing with support services for the chronically homeless.The new sales tax revenue would pay for services attached to those units and provide rental subsidies and services for thousands more units across the county.Around 1:30 a.m. Wednesday, the L.A. County Registrar-Recorder reported that the yes vote stood at  67%, up from less than 63% early Tuesday night. It was just enough to squeak by the two-thirds majority needed for passage. On election night, Los Angeles City Council President Herb Wesson, Councilman Marqueece Harris-Dawson and county Supervisor Janice Hahn all said they were optimistic. ""Every new report that has been received since the first one is trending in the direction we want,"" said Supervisor Mark Ridley-Thomas.Earlier Tuesday evening, Hahn had said that if the sales tax increase failed she would try again on a future ballot.""Win or lose, I'm going to have homelessness at the top of my priorities as a supervisor,"" said Hahn, who was elected to the board in November.Advertising for the measure promised it would move an estimated 45,000 families and individuals from homelessness into permanent housing during the first five years, while preventing 30,000 more families and individuals from becoming homeless.“Measure H revenue will enable the most comprehensive plan to combat homelessness in the history of Los Angeles County,” said Phil Ansell, head of the county’s Homeless Initiative.The complex and still-evolving spending plan includes rent to house thousands of people in existing apartments and services for those units, and an additional 10,000 units to be built over a decade with help from the homeless housing bond approved by Los Angeles city voters in November. County officials have outlined the basic strategies that would be funded, but they have not yet issued a budget showing the proportions each would receive. Those decisions would be sorted out by a panel of 50 people appointed from county government, cities and the nonprofit world, Ansell said. The panel would consider six main categories: subsidized housing, coordinated outreach and shelters, case management and services, homelessness prevention, income support and preservation of existing housing.More than 250 business, nonprofit, labor, government and religious organizations endorsed Measure H, which faced no organized opposition.A $3.5-million campaign received contributions from real estate and investment firms, labor organizations, philanthropists and other groups with ties to Los Angeles. Those donors include Disney Worldwide Services Inc., USC, former DreamWorks Animation Chief Executive Jeffrey Katzenberg and the Los Angeles Chargers. The campaign sent about 4 million mailers and advertised in Los Angeles County newspapers.The county Board of Supervisors added $1 million for a campaign including television spots. United Way of Greater Los Angeles also committed $200,000 for community engagement activities in support of the measure.Awaiting late returns, Hahn called Measure H “the most inspiring and moving campaign I've ever been a part of,” adding that it was “about helping people most of us will never meet.""doug.smith@latimes.comTwitter: @LATDougALSOFaced with chance for radical change, L.A. voters chose to stay the courseMeasure S defeated after heated, costly battle over future L.A. developmentRunoffs appear likely in two of three pivotal L.A. school board contestsUPDATES:1:30 a.m.: This article was updated with later vote totals.12:20 a.m. March 8: This article was updated with later vote totals.11:15 p.m.: This article was updated with additional comments from Measure H supporters.10:15 p.m.: This article was updated with a comment from county Supervisor Janice Hahn.8:25 p.m.: This article was updated with early returns.This article was first posted at 6:20 p.m. March 7.";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:19";1508
34;"The UN Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia is one of five regional councils charged with promoting cooperation and integration between countries in each region. The ESCWA covers 18 countries in Asia and Africa: Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, Mauritania, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, The Sudan, The Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, The United Arab Emirates and Yemen.Rima Khalaf, who is Jordanian, was appointed to head the UN ESCWA in 2010. She was re-appointed in 2015 over protests by Israel and Saudi Arabia. Both US allies were angered over the ESCWA report: Arab Integration — A 21st Century Development Imperative. It discussed the Arab Spring and the many regional impediments, including repressive regimes, that were undermining it.Earlier this year, the UN ESCWA was set to release a report that was highly critical of Arab regimes repressing their citizens. The report was not published: A UN spokesperson said the Arab Integration report would be released by the independent scholars engaged by UN ESCWA who wrote it. The UN would not publish it. It seems like the UN ESCWA under Ms. Khalaf was publishing reports that seemed to annoy many of the powers that be in the region.Earlier this week, the agency published a report written by two American academics, Richard Falk (Princeton, U Cal Santa Barbara) and Virginia Tilley (Southern Illinois University). Here’s the opening paragraph:Falk served for six years as the UN-HRC special investigator for the Palestinian territories. While serving in that role, he was refused entry into Israel. He remained in that role despite continued opposition by Israel. The report received widespread coverage in The Washington Post, Counterpunch, The Hindu, The New York Times, Democracy Now, The Jerusalem Post and the Palestine News Network. Juan Cole’s commentary is worth a read.The UN Secretary General distanced himself from the report which was issued by the agency without coordinating with his office:Equating Israeli rule over Palestinians to Apartheid isn’t new, a senior editor at the left-leaning Israeli newspaper Haaretz did it in 2015. In 2010, Ehud Barak said Israel was going to turn into an Apartheid state, and he’s a former PM. Noam Chomsky doesn’t think the term Apartheid is useful, but has said what Israel is doing is worse. Jimmy Carter’s said much the same. And all this is happening when the American alt-right claims they’re practicing “white Zionism”. Let’s just say this is all a touchy topic.What may have caused particular alarm was this section of the report:The US Ambassador to the UN, Nikki Haley did not mince words either:The report has since been pulled from the UN ESCWA website. A summary is still on the ESCWA website and the UN website. The complete 76 page report is still available here. Rima Khalaf resigned in protest today.";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:21";1509
35;"Liberal-leaning states are promising to push forward with aggressive targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and developing renewable energy sources just as President Trump moved to roll back much of his predecessor’s efforts to combat climate change.In state capitols from Albany to Sacramento, Democrats lambasted the executive order Trump signed Tuesday that begins the process of rolling back the Clean Power Plan, an Obama-era rule aimed at cleaning up coal-fired power plants.“President Trump’s decision to ax the Clean Power Plan cedes U.S. global leadership and increases the risk that climate change will continue to damage our state. We can’t afford to slow our efforts, and we won’t,” Washington Gov. Jay Inslee (D) said Tuesday.“We’re very confident that the EPA cannot simply dismantle the CPP and leave nothing in its place,” New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman (D) said in a conference call Tuesday afternoon. “We regret the fact that the president is trying to bow back history. But it’s not going to happen. The markets are moving. The states are moving.”Inslee, Oregon Gov. Kate Brown (D), California Gov. Jerry Brown (D) and the Democratic mayors of Seattle; Portland, Ore.; San Francisco; Oakland, Calif.; and Los Angeles said in a joint statement that the new executive order “moves our nation in the wrong direction and puts American prosperity at risk.”Separately, Jerry Brown and New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) reaffirmed their states’ commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the coming years to well below previous highs. Both states have set goals of lowering greenhouse gas emissions by 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2030 and 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050.In both statements, the governors said collective action is necessary to combat a global problem. New York is a member of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a cooperation between Northeastern and Mid-Atlantic states that established a cap-and-trade program. Washington, Oregon, California and British Columbia, in northwest Canada, have signed a similar agreement.                 “It doesn’t make sense for Oregon to do it alone. It makes sense when we [combat climate change] on a regional basis,” Kate Brown said Saturday in Seattle, where she and Inslee met to plot strategy.Last week, California’s Air Resources Board voted to implement strict emission limits on automobiles and to require automakers to get more zero-emission vehicles to market. That vote came after Trump ordered the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to reconsider greenhouse gas emission limits put in place by the Obama administration, limits in which California has a say under the 1970 Clean Air Act.California must now seek a waiver from the EPA for its stricter limits. If that waiver is granted, as it was under the Obama administration, other states may adopt those same emissions limits.Environmental groups say states taking action on climate change will enjoy the secondary benefit of cornering the market on renewable energy. New York has committed to developing wind turbines off Long Island. States like Washington and Oregon already get a huge percentage of their power from renewable hydro sources.“Ultimately, states that lead like California, Washington and other, they are trying to capture as much of the clean energy market as possible,” said Bill Holland, state policy director at the League of Conservation Voters. “The governors of states like Washington and California are acting in the real world to create economic opportunity.”But Republican-led states said the new executive order would reverse a rule that put an unfair onus on states and the energy industry.“We’re heartened by the president’s latest action, which shows he’s serious about returning common sense and the rule of law to the EPA,” Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton (R) said in a statement. “And we look forward to the EPA returning to the cooperative approach with the states that the Clean Air Act and Clean Water Act expressly require as it reconsiders the unlawful Clean Power Plan.”The Democratic opposition to Trump’s rollback represents a new front in a burgeoning legal war between the administration and blue states, one reminiscent of the battles fought by Republican attorneys general against the Obama administration’s climate actions in recent years.In the case of the Clean Power Plan, Republican states are still fighting the Obama-era rule. A coalition of 19 Republican-led states asked the EPA earlier this month to reconsider several rules, including the Clean Power Plan, under a collaborative framework they said was envisioned by both the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act. ";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:24";1510
36;"Former President George W. Bush is scheduled to attend a fundraiser this weekend with Ed Gillespie, a former Republican National Committee chairman running for governor of Virginia.The fundraiser will take place in Dallas, where Bush lives.""Ed will travel to Dallas this week to raise money for his campaign. He's proud to have the support of President Bush and conservative leaders from across the commonwealth and the country,"" said Gillespie spokeswoman Abbi Sigler, according to CNN.""This is a crucial campaign for Virginia Republicans, and Ed will work tirelessly to ensure we have the resources necessary to defeat Ralph Northam or Tom Perriello in November, and bring conservative leadership back to Richmond,"" she added, referring to Democratic candidates.Gillespie, who served as an aide to Bush during his time as president, leads two other GOP candidates in the Virginia gubernatorial race, according to a poll released Tuesday.Gillespie holds 38 percent support in the poll from The Wason Center at Christopher Newport University, compared to 11 percent for Prince William County Chairman Corey Stewart and 10 percent for Virginia Beach state Sen. Frank Wagner.In the race for the Democratic nomination, Perriello and Northam are tied, with both candidates holding 26 percent of the vote, according to the same survey.";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:24";1511
37;"Federal agents raided the Bicycle Hotel &amp; Casino in Bell Gardens Tuesday, paralyzing bets at one of Southern California’s largest gambling rooms as investigators seized thousands of financial records and launched a money-laundering investigation, law enforcement officials told The Times.The probe, which began when agents entered the casino’s main floor around 7 a.m., will focus on whether individuals used the club to launder funds by placing bets with dirty money before exchanging their chips for clean cash, according to several law enforcement sources familiar with the investigation. The sources requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the case.The raid was led by members of the Los Angeles High Intensity Financial Crime Area Task Force — a group that includes investigators from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the Internal Revenue Service, the California Department of Justice’s bureau of gambling control and the U.S. attorney’s office.Agents blocked the entrances to the casino’s two parking lots Tuesday morning, occasionally talking to frustrated gamblers and employees standing beyond the crime scene tape. Shortly before 9:30 a.m., agents waved an armored truck toward the front door.Virginia Kice, an ICE spokeswoman, declined to comment on “the scope or nature of the investigation.” But, she said, a “search warrant issued by a United States magistrate judge was filed under seal in relation to an ongoing investigation.”As of 5:30 p.m., Kice said, investigators still were working inside the casino.Becky Warren, a spokeswoman for the casino, said management was ""cooperating with authorities"" but declined to comment further. She said the casino would reopen at 3 a.m. Wednesday.The sight of federal agents, some wearing bulky black vests, drew dozens of people to the edge of the casino’s property.Kenneth Taylor, 53, of Los Angeles, said his sister had been on the casino floor when federal agents entered and instructed players to exit the area.A Pai Gow player who joked that he comes to the Bicycle and loses “every day,"" Taylor said he was not surprised by the flood of police that descended on the building. ""Let's put it like this. Gambling is a game of luck. I consider myself a lucky person,"" he said. ""But you can never win at the Bicycle.""Several others watching from the street also had complaints about the casino — decrying rude pit bosses and raising suspicions that even though “the house always wins,” it won a little too often inside the Bicycle. Rigged gaming, however, did not appear to be the focus of the federal probe.Near the casino entrance, a man who would identify himself only as an employee nervously approached an ICE agent and asked when he would be able to get inside. He said he was carrying $7,000 in chips, and was afraid they no longer had any value.The agent reassured him that ICE was not ""taking over the casino"" and that chips could be cashed out at a later date.Nathan Davalle of the state gambling control bureau also said players with outstanding chips would be able to recoup their money when the casino reopened.Agents typically do not close casinos while conducting money-laundering investigations, according to I. Nelson Rose, a Whittier law school professor and expert on gambling law.""From a public relations point of view, this was horrible. The agents closed the active casino. Some players talked about cheating. But this is far from cheating. This is about someone passing money through an establishment,” said Rose, who worked for the club under previous management.Tuesday was not the first time that law enforcement efforts had focused on the casino.In 1990, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the IRS seized control after authorities discovered laundered drug money had been used to finance the casino’s construction. A jury found that $12 million of the $22 million total had come from Florida drug smugglers. In 1991, the federal government took over part ownership of the casino, eventually selling its share to a British gaming company.Known for its 185 tables of poker and other card games, the casino now is privately owned by Bicycle Hotel &amp; Casino LLC.Across the street from the hotel Tuesday, 49-year-old Tracy Peoples said she was happy to see the raid take place. Like several gamblers lining the block, she claimed she had always suspected there was something fishy about the way table games operated inside the casino, specifically Pai Gow.Asked why she kept playing at the Bicycle if she thought she was being cheated, Peoples hung her head.""Because we're gamblers. It's an addiction. You always think you're gonna get your money back,"" said Peoples, who has been playing at the Bicycle for 24 years. ""We know we're being cheated, but the addiction is in you.“I've lost so much in here, I probably built half the hotel.""Los Angeles Times Staff photographer Al Seib contributed to this report.richard.winton@latimes.comTwitter: @lacrimesjames.queally@latimes.comTwitter: @JamesQueallyLATveronica.rocha@latimes.comTwitter: VeronicaRochaLAALSOMotorcyclist who became Internet sensation with freeway jump critically injured in another stuntHit-and-runs fell after California gave driver's licenses to those here illegally, study finds'Wrong place. Wrong time.': Beaten San Pedro teen may have been caught in gang initiation, cops say UPDATES:8:30 p.m.: This article was updated with the expected reopening of the casino.6:35 p.m.: This article was updated with additional comments from an expert on gambling laws and additional background about the casino.11:25 p.m.: This article was updated with comments from Davalle, Warren and Peoples.10:15 a.m.: This article was updated with comments from law enforcement sources and bystanders near the casino.9:05 a.m.: This article was updated with additional comments from Virginia Kice, an ICE spokeswoman.This article was originally published at 8:05 a.m.";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:26";1512
38;"A Bay Area woman was shot to death Tuesday morning while driving with her two young children, and her estranged boyfriend is suspected in the killing, police said.Rashanda Franklin was killed in a targeted shooting as she drove her children to school in Richmond. She was found wounded behind the steering wheel and died at the scene.Her children, both boys, were not hurt, Richmond police Lt. Felix Tan said.A $2-million warrant has been issued for the arrest of Franklin’s estranged boyfriend, Dushan McBride, 43, of San Pablo.Tan said police had been called for previous domestic violence situations involving the couple but didn't give any other details.Franklin drove around the area trying to avoid McBride but when she stopped at an intersection, he drove his car ahead and stopped in front of her, police said.Surveillance footage from a camera at a home near the scene captured McBride getting out of his car, walking up to Franklin's SUV, and after a few minutes walking back to his car and driving away. Police say that after a brief argument, McBride shot Franklin in the chest as the children watched.Franklin’s mother, Barbara Harris, said her daughter and McBride were in a relationship that went bad.“She had called it off with him, and he had been stalking her,” a sobbing Harris told the San Francisco Chronicle. Harris, who spoke from the living room of her home in Richmond, was surrounded by the two children who had been with Franklin as well as a third, younger son.“I guess he didn't want to let her go. And apparently he decided to gun my child down,” she added.ALSOInland Empire dentist admits to possession and distribution of child pornography1 teen killed, 2 critically injured in South L.A. shooting, police sayMore charges against the man accused in fatal attacks against homeless men in San Diego";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:27";1513
39;"One hundred and sixty-three days  earlier, the Dodgers huddled inside the visitor’s clubhouse at Wrigley Field, commiserating over their second-round playoff defeat to the Chicago Cubs and pledging to  advance beyond that stage in 2017. The front office shelled out nearly $200 million during the offseason to keep the  team together. Throughout a mostly placid spring, the group exuded the calm of a club that knows the depth of its talent and the proximity of its dream.“It’s a quiet confidence,” said Justin Turner, one of the four free agents who re-signed over the winter, and one of the hitters who contributed to the Dodgers’ display of organizational might on the first day of their 60th season in Los Angeles, a 14-3 trouncing of the overmatched San Diego Padres.The team maintained its unbeaten record in Clayton Kershaw’s seven opening-day starts, although on this day, Kershaw acted as a supporting player to an overpowering offense  before 53,701 fans at Dodger Stadium.The lineup set a franchise record for opening day with four home runs, including a grand slam from Joc Pederson and shots from each side of the plate by Yasmani Grandal. The  Dodgers scored six runs in the first three innings, then six more in the next two. Eight members of the lineup crossed the plate. During seven low-stress innings, Kershaw  allowed two hits and struck out eight. He allowed two runs, one unearned. He scored two himself.“If they can keep scoring double-digit runs,” Kershaw said, “I think we're going to have a good year.”The summer will test the stability of the Dodgers rotation, the viability of  their bullpen and the steadiness of  their lineup. The fall will determine whether the championship drought ends or  threatens to enter a fourth decade. But for one day, at least, the Padres served as a fodder for a fearsome unit.In the morning, with the temperature hovering in the low 60s, Manager Dave Roberts made batting practice optional, but most of his players streamed onto the field after 10 a.m., three hours before scheduled first pitch. He had intended to deliver a brief address to the group before the game. As he sensed the pulse of his players, he realized a motivational speech would waste everyone’s time.“The focus was there,” Roberts said. “For me to call the guys together, it was overkill. It didn’t really serve a purpose.”In his second year as the Dodgers’ manager, Roberts has learned the value of trusting his men to guide themselves through adversity. The team weathered an MLB record for players on the disabled list in 2016 to secure a fourth consecutive National League West title. This team, he believes, can handle choppy waters.So Roberts saw little reason to panic after Monday’s first inning, when a two-base throwing error by shortstop Corey Seager contributed to a Padres run. The Dodgers evened the score in the second after a double by Adrian Gonzalez, a single by Logan Forsythe and a sacrifice fly by Pederson.In the third inning, the gap between these two clubs became inescapable. To counter Kershaw, the Padres selected Jhoulys Chacin as their starting pitcher. Chacin had posted a 4.81 earned-run average with the Angels and Atlanta Braves last season, but for a team  struggling through a rebuild, he passed muster for the season opener. Before the game began, Roberts said he expected to break into San Diego’s bullpen early. His premonition proved accurate: Chacin could not complete the fourth inning.The lineup overran Chacin in the third. The deluge began when Turner hit a two-out double. After two balls to Gonzalez, San Diego Manager Andy Green ordered an intentional walk. The move backfired when Chacin plunked Forsythe and loaded the bases for Pederson.Worried about pitching inside, Chacin fell behind in the count, 3-1. Forced to throw a strike, he  delivered a fastball at the belt. Pederson’s hands were too quick. He scorched the ball into the right-field corner, a line drive that sizzled off the bat at 112 mph  and cleared the fence.“I thought it might have been a double, because I hit it pretty low,” Pederson said. “Luckily the fence is short out there.”Pederson became the first Dodger to supply five  runs batted in on opening day since Raul Mondesi drove in six runs in 1999. And Green stuck with Chacin. Three pitches later, he flipped a slider over the plate. Grandal blasted it toward the landing spot of Pederson’s slam.Few teams can boast an offense with this much brawn. Pederson swatted 25 homers in 2016. Grandal tied for the team lead with 27. Yet  in this lineup they bat sixth and seventh, lengthening the minefield for opposing pitchers.“That says something about the lineup, for sure,” Seager said. “When guys like that are that low, that shows you there’s not many outs.”An inning later, the Dodgers manufactured three runs  on an RBI double by Turner and a pair of run-scoring wild pitches uncorked by Padres catcher-turned-reliever Christian Bethancourt. By the fifth inning, the only Dodger who hadn’t reached base was Seager. He came to bat with two runners on and two out. Bethancourt threw a fastball at the letters. Seager crushed a three-run homer.By the time Grandal unloaded his second homer, this one a two-run shot to left off a rookie named Jose Torres, a sizable portion of the crowd had departed the ballpark. There was nothing left for the Dodgers to prove on this day, against this opponent.A few minutes after 4 p.m., Roberts ambled into a  news conference on the ground floor of the ballpark. There awaited his first serious challenge of the day: There was no chair behind his microphone. Roberts hoisted one up and carried it to his usual position.On this day, at least, not everything came easy.“With our guys, it seems like every night, something special can happen,” Roberts said. “It was a collective effort.”andy.mccullough@latimes.comTwitter: @McCulloughTimes";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:28";1514
40;"Shaking the sleep out of their old ballpark, awakening their urgency to end a title drought, the Dodgers majestically opened the 2017 baseball season Monday afternoon with a perfect two-part greeting.Hello. Goodbye!An hour into the opener against the San Diego Padres at Dodger Stadium, Joc Pederson hit a line drive that turned into a roar, hammering the ball into the right-field corner seats for a grand slam.Two minutes later, Yasmani Grandal cranked up the volume by lofting a ball over the same fence just beyond the same spot.Two innings later, Corey Seager turned Chavez Ravine into a dance party with a three-run homer into the left-field pavilion.Three innings after that, Grandal sent those fans bouncing to the exits in exhausted joy by driving a ball into the empty left-field Dodgers bullpen.The four home runs, a first in Dodgers’ history in an opener, quite possibly foreshadowed an unforgettable summer — struck on a day as cool as October but sunny with hope.“With our guys, every night something special could happen,’’ Dodgers manager Dave Roberts said, shaking his head and smiling after a 14-3 victory.Their opening-day bats were so special — every starter hit safely, Grandal homered from each side of the plate, Pederson had five runs batted in — it was easy to forget the Dodgers also benefited from the planet’s best arm.Yes, Clayton Kershaw pitched, and brilliantly, allowing just two hits in seven innings with eight strikeouts in remaining unbeaten in his seventh consecutive opening-day start.“This is a lot of fun,’’ said Kershaw, sharing his manager’s smile. “A lot of fun to win, a lot of fun to get the edge off, to play in front of this crowd again.’’Even against a Padres team so young and untested that the entire roster combined will be paid less than Kershaw this season — $33 million to $28 million — it was a powerful first step for a team hoping to still be chugging in late autumn for the first time in 29 years.“We have a great team,’’ Kershaw acknowledged. “We have a good chance to win this thing.”As usual, an afternoon of promise was framed with a bevy of memories, the Dodgers’ 60th opening day in Los Angeles marked by heroes present and missing.The ceremonial first pitches were thrown by former manager Tom Lasorda and former Coliseum hitting hero Wally Moon, and there was a clear message in their aging and regal presence: Between them, they own all five Los Angeles Dodgers world championship rings.Shortly before their pitches, the first video was narrated by the recently retired Vin Scully, missing his first season after 67 years but still taking the time to offer a homage to opening day.It was strange that Scully was absent from the booth and the  media room, his distinctive voice available only through scoreboard video presentations. It was so strange that during the fifth inning, with the Dodgers leading 9-1, I sneaked away to the back of the press box to call him on his cellphone.Surely he was at home, watching the television breathlessly, calling the action from his couch, missing the game as badly as it missed him?“Today I was engaged in that other national pastime, paying bills,’’ Scully said with a laugh. “Then I went to the post office to mail them, and now I’m just leaving the carwash.’’Opening day at the carwash?“Some people did stop me and say it was strange to see me,’’ he said. “I told them I agree.’’So was he headed home to at least watch the end of the game?“I have to go to the hardware store to pick up some anti-moth product,” Scully said. “I’m not sure if I’ll get home in time to see it. Who’s winning?’’He was told the Dodgers. He was asked if he was happy.“Sure I am,’’ he said. “I’ve got a really clean car.’’He then added, more seriously, that spending the afternoon living a normal life with his beloved wife Sandi was, for him, the perfect opening day.“I’m aware that I’m not where I’ve been for about 60,000 years,’’ he said. “But I’m just where I want to be.’’So are the Dodgers, who are beginning a mission that has been six months in the making.Judging by the calendar, Monday was a long way from the last time they played an official game, on that chilly Oct. 22 night in Chicago’s Wrigley Field when they were knocked out of the playoffs in Game 6 of the National League Championship Series.Yet judging from their internal clocks, it was only minutes.Bunkered in a tiny Wrigley clubhouse while a party raged around him last October, the Dodgers vowed to stick together and take that next step this season. Twenty-one of the 25 players in that clubhouse came back, a devoted group returning with such veteran focus that on Monday morning, Roberts didn’t even feel it necessary to give an opening-day pep talk.“That feeling we had in Wrigley Field in the visiting clubhouse, I still feel that, and I know they do,’’ the manager said. “Where we’re at with the roster and being healthy, I don’t think we can envision us being in a better spot right now.’’On the first day it counted, that spot was at the plate, on the mound, in the field and, perhaps most impressively, lodged somewhere over the fences. Four times. Farewell and welcome back.bill.plaschke@latimes.comGet more of Bill Plaschke's work and follow him on Twitter @BillPlaschkeMORE FROM BILL PLASCHKE: A father-son lunch at Dodger Stadium is filled with hope and dreams of a World Series winClippers take their foot off the gas ahead of what could be their last playoff ride togetherThe Lakers are officially Jeanie Buss' team, so what will she do?";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:28";1515
41;"Adrian Gonzalez extended his right arm, displaying a black band about an inch under his elbow.This is what tempered the symptoms of the tendinitis in his elbow. This is what allowed him to play Monday more or less pain-free.“With the pressure, I almost feel close to 100%,” he said. “When I don’t have pressure on it, check swings will really hurt me.”He was relieved. The Dodgers should have been too.They can’t play the San Diego Padres every game. They will have to overcome competent opposition to reach the World Series, which will almost certainly require offensive contributions from the five-time All-Star first baseman.The Dodgers’ cleanup hitter, Gonzalez doubled, walked twice and scored a couple of runs in the 14-3 victory, but what he did wasn’t as important as how he felt.Gonzalez turns 35 next month and continues to deal with neck problems. As the Dodgers went into spring training, there were whispers about how the anticipated emergence of prospect Cody Bellinger could affect Gonzalez’s role on the team. Gonzalez’s elbow flared up in camp, fueling further speculation.However, the 21-year-old Bellinger struck out in 20 of his 58 at-bats in the exhibition season. He didn’t look anywhere near ready to be an everyday first baseman.Gonzalez had to be healthy. Or else.Gonzalez didn’t know what to think.“That was a concern,” he said. “I didn’t know.”He experimented with various treatment methods.“It’s still a work in progress,” Gonzalez said. “The pregame exercises weren’t good for it and made me feel weak during spring training games. We had to back off from pregame exercises and do more of a soft-tissue type of deal, to get it warmed up, get it loose.”The left-handed hitter also adjusted his swing.“I changed a little bit of my mechanics to be more top-hand heavy,” Gonzalez said. “It could be a blessing in disguise. It will make me stay back on the ball, make me do things I haven’t been doing. If it feels good, I might stick with it because by me staying back, I can track the ball a little better.”The returns Monday were promising. He bounced a ground-rule double into the left-field stands in the second inning and later scored to tie it at 1-1. He was walked intentionally in a five-run third inning for the Dodgers. He was walked again, this time unintentionally, in the fourth. He grounded out in the fifth.This was about a low-key an opening day as Dodger Stadium has hosted in some time. This was the start of the Dodgers’ 60th season in Los Angeles, but there was barely any mention of that. Instead of Sandy Koufax or Vin Scully, the ceremonial first pitches were delivered by Wally Moon and Tommy Lasorda.Still, there’s really no place like Dodger Stadium on opening day, except for maybe the Las Vegas Strip on an early Saturday afternoon. The only time there could be as many people here for a day game would be in the postseason.Opening day here isn’t much a baseball game as it is a social event, which is why the stadium concourses are packed to where you can move only a half-step at a time. Many fans were holding alcoholic beverages. Others held up traffic by snapping pictures of themselves with their phones. Some did both.I’m no baseball purist, evidenced by how I recently argued for that Major League Baseball should use the international tiebreaker to decided extra-inning games in the regular season. But I really don’t like the new intentional walk rule, which allows a manager to put an opposing hitter on first by flashing a sign to the home plate umpire.The Padres intentionally walked Yasiel Puig in the second inning and Gonzalez in the third. Both times, I missed the signal from the Padres bench. Both times, I looked elsewhere for a moment, only to see suddenly see a new hitter when I turned back to the batter’s box.Part of baseball’s charm was that it didn’t require the viewer’s undivided attention at every moment. Also lost was the anticipation for the next at-bat, which used to gradually heighten as the pitcher lobbed the four balls to his catcher.Dodgers beat writer Andy McCullough couldn’t conceal his disgust as I unwrapped the free hamburger in the press box.“That is vile,” he said.On appearance alone, my colleague was right. The hamburger in question was the Dodger Burger, the new offering at the Buds &amp; Burgers stand on the third base side of the field level. The culinary Frankenstein experiment is made up of a beef patty smothered in BBQ sauce, topped with four Dodger Dog slices, caramelized onions and a couple of jalapeno poppers.Thankfully, the Dodger Burger tasted considerably better than it looks. It’s quite good, actually. I don’t know if it’s worth the $13.50 price, but, then again, everything else in the ballpark is also marked up.dylan.hernandez@latimes.comFollow Dylan Hernandez on Twitter @dylanohernandez";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:29";1516
42;"In the aftermath of the polling industry's failure to accurately predict the results of the presidential election last fall, experts have sought various explanations for the disconnect.One theory posits that people were, and continue to be, ashamed to voice support for President Trump and his policies in phone interviews, making online polling a superior method for accurately capturing public opinion.In a new report released last week, the Pew Research Center investigated that possibility, conducting the same survey with polling samples both online and over the phone. The experiment does not support the embarrassed-Trump-supporter theory.Pew reported:Overall, the survey experiment did not find significant mode differences in overall opinion about Trump or many of his signature policy positions. The web mode yielded estimates that were 1.8 percentage points more supportive of Trump and his policy positions, on average, than estimates from the phone mode. The differences ranged from 0 to 8 percentage points. In total, four of the 27 differences observed were statistically significant using conventional testing for opinion polls.Getting more specific, the report detailed that ""Both modes tell the same story,"" explaining, ""both find minority support for a wall along the entire Mexican border, minority support for the travel restrictions on certain majority-Muslim countries, minority support for a national law enforcement effort to deport immigrants living in the U.S. illegally and an essentially even split on attitudes toward the 2010 health care bill.""Pew carefully noted, however, that ""the two items that showed the largest difference between web and phone both focused on the policy treatment of undocumented immigrants.""Nevertheless, the firm concluded in its report that ""the big picture about where the public stands on Trump's signature policies is not dependent upon whether the poll was conducted online or by phone.""Emily Jashinsky is a commentary writer for the Washington Examiner.";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:34";1517
43;"Fox Business Network host Stuart Varney scolded the GOP on Friday for struggling to repeal and replace ObamaCare despite controlling the House, Senate and White House. “I personally believe at this moment in time the Republican Party is a disgrace,” Varney declared during an interview with Juan Williams, a Fox News and The Hill contributor. ""I’m serious. I am serious.”“We elected the Republicans who run the House, the Senate, and the White House and the very, very first thing that comes up on the legislative agenda they vote no, they’re split. They can’t do it. They can’t govern. I am really fit to be tied."" ";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:45";1518
44;"Fox News analyst Andrew Napolitano told several people that President Trump was considering nominating him to the Supreme Court, Politico reported Saturday.Napolitano was pulled off the air by Fox this week after he claimed on-air that a British intelligence agency wiretapped Trump Tower — a claim the White House repeated, drawing criticism from the United Kingdom.Napolitano met with Trump twice during the transition, reportedly telling associates after the meetings that he was told he was on the short list to fill the Supreme Court vacancy.Napolitano told a colleague that the president promised to nominate him if another Supreme Court seat opens during his presidency, Politico reported.Napolitano last week claimed that Britain’s Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) was spying on Trump at former President Obama's behest.White House press secretary Sean Spicer then quoted Napolitano's remarks while defending the president's claim earlier this month that the former president had Trump Tower under surveillance before the presidential election.Asked about Spicer repeating Napolitano’s claim, Trump called the Fox analyst a “very talented legal mind” but added that the White House was just citing the report, not endorsing it.Fox News host Shepard Smith denied that his network has information validating Napolitano's remark, saying the network knows of ""no evidence of any kind that the now-President of the United States was surveilled at any time in any way."" GCHQ rejected Napolitano’s claims that it helped surveil Trump for Obama in 2016 as “nonsense.”";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:49";1519
45;"Fox News host Sean Hannity on Friday denied that President Trump was to blame for Republicans' failure to pass their plan to repeal and replace ObamaCare.""After seven long years of Republicans promising to repeal and replace ObamaCare, not getting the job done is unacceptable,"" said Hannity, a longtime backer of Trump.""Let me be very clear here: This is not President Trump's failure,"" he added. ""The president went above and beyond — did everything in his power — to get this bill across the finish line.""Trump blamed Democrats for failing to back the bill, though the measure failed after several dozen Republicans remained opposed to the proposal.The president indicated that instead of rewriting the legislation he would allow ObamaCare to ""explode.""Hannity, a fierce supporter of Trump, also delivered a warning to Democrats that ObamaCare was in a ""death spiral,"" saying that they would have to take responsibility for its inevitable failure.  ""Since ObamaCare was not repealed and replaced, guess what? The country is now going to see just how devastating your statism and how dangerous this law really is,"" he said.Hannity also blasted House Republicans for failing to reach a consensus on the measure.""My advice is don't put bills together without consulting all these factions within your party,"" he said.";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:50";1520
46;"Democratic Rep. Tulsi Gabbard on Thursday demanded that Syrian President Bashar Assad be ""executed"" if it is confirmed he ordered the deadly chemical attack earlier this week that killed dozens of Syrian civilians, according to a report.The Hawaiian lawmaker, who met with Assad earlier this year, made that statement on the same day President Trump authorized a missile strike against the airbase from which the chemical attack is believed to have originated, according to Hawaii News Now.After the stike, Gabbard put out another statement condeming the administration for acting ""recklessly without care or consideration of the dire consequences of the United States attack on Syria without waiting for the collection of evidence from the scene of the chemical poisoning.""Trump, in his address to the nation following the U.S. military operation, unequivocally pinned the blame on Assad for the chemical weapons attack, which killed about 80 people, including children.""Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad launched a horrible chemical weapons attack on innocent civilians using a deadly nerve agent,"" he said.The Syrian government denies it was involved in the attack, though the Pentagon said Thursday it detected Syrian fixed-wing aircraft drop bombs on the Syrian town the chemical attack took place.In her original statement, before the strike, Gabbard detailed what a proper prosecution of Assad would look like before making any conclusions.""A successful prosecution of Assad (at the International Criminal Court) will require collection of evidence from the scene of the incident, and I support the United Nation's efforts in this regard,"" Gabbard said. ""Without such evidence, a successful prosecution is impossible.""Gabbard, a member of the Armed Services and Foreign Affairs Committees, also expressed her opposition to an escalation of U.S. involvement in Syria, which she said would mean ""more dead civilians, more refugees, the strengthening of terrorists, and a possible nuclear war between the United States and Russia.""Gabbard met with Assad to discuss ending the Syrian civil war during a secret trip to Syria in January. In a follow-up interview with CNN, she said, ""In order for any peace agreement, in order for any possibility of a viable peace agreement to occur there has to be a conversation with [Assad].""";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:51";1521
47;"Sen. Rand Paul issued subtle advice to President Trump on Wednesday that he shouldn't stray from the position he took back in 2013 questioning U.S. involvement in the ongoing Syrian conflict.The lawmaker retweeted a tweet from Trump in August of 2013, at a time when the international community had determined that Syrian President Bashar Assad was behind a chemical weapon attack that left hundreds dead. The Obama administration reportedly was considering a military strike in response.""What will we get for bombing Syria besides more debt and a possible long term conflict? Obama needs Congressional approval,"" Trump remarked at the time.The dovish Paul said that the message of the tweet ""remains true today as it was in 2013. Both parts.""It's clear back in 2013 that Trump opposed any sort of U.S. intervention in Syria. He said in a follow-up tweet the next month in a more blunt fashion: ""Barack Obama, do not attack Syria.""As recently as last week the Trump administration displayed an apparent willingness on the part of the U.S. government to wash its hands of the Syrian conflict. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said it was up to the Syrian people, not outside interveners, to decide what to do about Assad.Yet with a new chemical attack this week, which has been tied to the Assad regime, Trump may be changing his tone. The president said on Wednesday that the attack ""crossed a lot of lines for me"" and his ""attitude toward Syria and Assad has changed very much.""Likewise, Tillerson said that Russia should reconsider its support of the Assad regime.";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:53";1522
48;"Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., said Thursday he opposed President Trump's strike against Syria because the U.S. has not been attacked by Syria, and said Trump should have sought congressional approval for the attack.""While we all condemn the atrocities in Syria, the United States was not attacked,"" Paul said. ""The president needs congressional authorization for military action as required by the Constitution, and I call on him to come to Congress for a proper debate.""""Our prior interventions in this region have done nothing to make us safer and Syria will be no different,"" Paul said.The Kentucky Republican has long opposed military intervention in the Middle East without approval from Congress, and has rejected preemptive military action.The comments are a sharp break from other GOP U.S. Senators, including Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Marco Rubio, R-Fla. Those Senate Republicans praised the president for taking decisive action with the military strike.";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:54";1523
49;"Fox News Channel's morning show is downplaying FBI Director James Comey's testimony to Congress, suggesting in a tweet that he mostly dodged questions.""If you missed yesterday's congressional hearing with FBI Dir. James Comey, you didn't miss much..."" reads a tweet from the official ""Fox &amp; Friends"" Twitter account.The video in the tweet includes 20 instances of Comey declining to comment in various ways, including stating on multiple occasions, ""same answer"" and ""I'm not going to comment on that.""During his testimony, Comey publicly confirmed for the first time that the FBI is investigating possible coordination between the Trump campaign and the Russian government. That revelation has cast what Republicans called a ""cloud"" over the administration that is likely to linger until the FBI's investigation is closed.Comey also shot down President Trump's claim that he was wiretapped by former President Obama, saying he has no evidence to corroborate that assertion. Tuesday's episode of ""Fox &amp; Friends"" also featured an interview with conservative radio talk show host and Fox News contributor Laura Ingraham.Ingraham said Democrats and the media are going to focus heavily on alleged ties between Russia and Trump's campaign in an effort to oust him from office.""They want him out. They want him to resign or be impeached. Let's be really blunt with what's going on here,"" Ingraham said.";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:55";1524
50;"MSNBC's Rachel Maddow rode big numbers from her highly scrutinized story on March 14 about President Trump's tax returns to finish at the top of the cable news race for a second straight week in the key 25- to 54-year-old demographic.  ";0;"2017-04-09 09:32:55";1525
